

Eye of the Dawn 
by Steven William Rimmer

Published by Jam Ink Publications

ISBN 978-1-895268-09-6



This is a downloadable copy of the entire contents of the printed book Eye of the Dawn by Steven 
William Rimmer, ISBN 978-1-895268-08-9. You can read this book from your monitor, or if you 
like, you can print it out.

Downloadable books can be printed to hard copy. This having been said, printing out this book 
will cost you about $25.00 in paper and toner, and the result will be an unwieldy stack of pages. 
You can buy a real printed, bound copy of this book for a lot less – just visit our e-commerce page 
or call the order desk at 1-800-263-1138.

Our e-commerce page can be found at http://www.StevenWilliamRimmer.com – click on SHOP. 
We can accept payment by Visa, MasterCard, American Express and PayPal.

For more information about Steven William Rimmer's novels, including other downloadable 
books, please visit http://www.StevenWilliamRimmer.com .


Copyright

As of January 1, 2007

This downloaded book is provided under the following terms, and by the terms stated at 
http://www.StevenWilliamRimmer.com/copyright.html , whichever is more recent. By reading 
beyond the copyright notice of this document, you agree to the following:

Downloadable book content: The downloadable text documents (hereafter, "the text 
documents") containing the contents of the novels of Steven William Rimmer are copyright © 
1986 – 2007 Steven William Rimmer. They are provided under the following copyright 
restrictions, which are binding upon anyone who acquires these documents, either by 
downloading them from this page or through any other medium.

1. You may read the text documents for your personal entertainment at no cost. If you wish to 
compensate the author of the text documents by purchasing a hard-copy edition of the book or 
books in question, you may do so. Your not purchasing a hard copy edition of the book or books 
in question will not affect your use of the text documents under this agreement.

2. You may print or otherwise create permanent hard copy of the text documents for your 
personal use only.

3. You may distribute copies of the text documents to friends, colleagues and other parties known 
to you under the condition that you do so in accordance with the other clauses and restrictions 
listed in this document, and listed in the downloadable text documents.

4. You may not modify, edit, shorten or add to the text documents in any way, for any reason. 
You may not distribute or cause to be distributed modified versions of the text documents in any 
manner, to any person, persons or entities, by any medium.

5. You may not publish the text documents, or any work based upon or derived from the text 
documents, in any medium for any reason. In this context, "publish" is understood to mean 
creating an exact, approximate or derivative copy or representation of the text documents on 
paper, electronic media or any other medium and distributing said copy or representation to third 
parties, whether for profit or without profit.

6. You may not display or cause to be displayed all or part of the text documents, or any work 
derived from the text documents, at a web page or other on-line or electronic medium.

7. You may not create a derivative work from the text documents, including but not exclusive to a 
screen play, theater play, radio play, illustrated novel, comic book or electronic game.

8. You may not utilize the text documents, or portions thereof, or works derived from them in any 
way that constitutes a profit-making enterprise, or for the generation of funds directly or indirectly, 
whomever the recipient of the funds may be.

9. You may not distribute the text files, or portions thereof, or works derived from them in 
conjunction with, attached to, as part of or in association with any other product, commercial or 
otherwise.

10. You may not cause the text documents to be distributed through any electronic medium, 
including but not exclusive to web pages, FTP sites and on-line archives.

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the province of Ontario, Canada. Each of the parties 
hereto irrevocably attorns to the jurisdiction of the courts of the Province of Ontario and further 
agrees to commence any litigation which may arise hereunder in the courts located in the Judicial 
District of York, Province of Ontario.

If any part of this Agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable, then the invalid or 
unenforceable provision will be deemed superseded by a valid, enforceable provision that most 
closely matches the intent of the original provision, and the remainder of the Agreement shall 
continue in effect. The Agreement, together with any license, agreement or restrictions stated 
within the body of the text documents, constitutes the entire agreement between you and 
Alchemy Mindworks, Steven William Rimmer and Jam Ink Publishing with respect to the text 
documents and the copyrighted work(s), and supersedes all other (prior or contemporaneous) 
communications and proposals, whether electronic, oral or written, between you and Alchemy 
Mindworks, Steven William Rimmer and Jam Ink Publishing regarding the text documents.

Violating or infringing upon the copyright of the text documents may result in substantial civil and 
criminal penalties and damages.






Prologue


Friday, March 17, 1989
London

"Would it not be easier just to shoot the bastard?" the girl had asked a week or so 
earlier. She'd not been taken with the complexity of his scheme.
	"It isn't what the client asked for," he'd explained patiently, hearing the remote 
whisper of an estate agent in his words. "Besides, it's an unwritten rule of the 
trade that one of the best ways to have passers-by notice you is to splatter someone 
else's brains all over them."
	She'd not thought much of his assertion, and had said as much. She'd had four 
pints in her by then, and he as well. She carried her drink rather more adeptly than 
he did, he'd observed, and he'd deliberately changed the subject, certain that she'd 
have had the better of him if he'd carried on discussing it.
	He pulled the unfamiliar coat about himself now, struggling to find a position 
for it across his shoulders which would defeat the dark spring rains. It smelled of 
mold recently made sullen by the harsh bite of disinfectant. Its previous owner had 
been of an odd shape, he reflected. There was a price to be paid for obtaining 
one's wardrobe at jumble sales.
	The coat was green, he'd observed some hours earlier. The unearthly glow of a 
street lamp a few paces away rendered it somehow colorless now, for which he 
allowed that he was grateful. Permitted the leisure of additional forethought he 
might have chosen some other shade to be wearing on Saint Patrick's day in the 
middle of London. How long had it been since the Irish had bombed a shopping 
precinct or a tube station, he considered absently.
	The girl had remarked on the coat when last they'd met, an hour or so earlier. 
She had a gift for seeing such things. He'd cursed her silently as the muted 
staccato of her footfalls had evaporated in the falling darkness. He'd not wanted to 
be reminded about the coat, about one more thing that could go wrong. This job 
seemed to have a wealth of things poised to go wrong, and the fact that none of 
them had seen fit to do so as yet troubled him all the more.
	He decided that he disliked having people who didn't quite know what he did 
tell him how to do it.
	Thus far none of the passers-by seemed to have been unduly troubled by his 
coat. Perhaps he should be thankful for the petulant rain that had been hissing and 
spitting from the poisonous, angry clouds overhead. People walked with their 
attention lost in the blackness at their feet and took little notice of the street about 
them.
	He shifted once more within the uncomfortable coat, feeling a trickle of water 
creep down his back. Was that rain or sweat, he wondered fleetingly. He glanced 
at the sky and was rewarded by an assault of rainwater from a lifeless tree branch 
overhanging the sidewalk. Sullenly he let his weight sink into the coarse brick wall 
at his back. He felt his fingers trace the details of the binding of the book under his 
arm, his thumbnail parting the pages through the thin leather of his gloves.
	It had been some while since he'd been down to London – he'd forgotten how 
much he disliked it. The streets, even back streets like this one, were never silent. 
The people who walked them seemed to conspire with each other in muted 
whispers as they passed, their faces fused into a single angry countenance in his 
thoughts. At times he'd felt an outsider amidst them, although he'd come to 
appreciate that each of them was an outsider too, that none trusted any of the 
others. The half-lit darkness of curtained windows and flickering headlamps 
glowered at him, some fabled remnant of a wartime that few of the city's present 
inhabitants could possibly recall.
	He'd noticed the rebuilt facades of some of the graceless houses as he'd first 
appraised the street several days earlier. He'd been some while appreciating that 
these buildings actually had crumbled and burned beneath a hail of German bombs 
half a century earlier. The scar tissue of new brick and mortar amidst the 
Dickensian pallor and decrepitude of the street had seemed to him at the time 
someone's idea of a monument, a cenotaph erected by an earlier race to honor an 
event that had since slipped from human consciousness.
	German bombs, he thought now. It had not occurred to him then, on that gray 
afternoon as he'd attempted to look disinterested, regarding the details of the 
sidewalk and the houses in furtive glances, that he would be paid for this job in 
German Deutsche Marks, or that he would carry it out with a bit of German steel. 
Those Germans – his Germans, he thought wryly – would have been distinctly 
uneasy had he driven them to this street and pointed out the repaired bomb 
damage.
	He found himself suddenly amused by the thought, and forced himself not to 
smile. His Germans were no less intent on turning his Britain into a battleground, 
at least for this one evening. They were more refined aggressors, though, and 
they'd chosen a more refined weapon. For his part, he wished once again that their 
weapon had chosen a less uncomfortable coat.
	One of the phrases he had picked up in listening to his Germans and his 
Americans and most assuredly his Brits was 'collateral damage.' He'd been some 
while understanding it, as the people who used such expressions tended to speak 
rather too quickly and resented being interrupted with requests for clarification. 
Collateral damage was what happened to an innocent building when it got in the 
way of a bomb intended to dispatch old ladies. His Germans would shake their 
heads ruefully at the evidence of collateral damage lurking behind the trees and 
flaking paint of this street, he was certain, and applaud their own efforts at using 
far more discerning instruments.
	He shook his head, struggling now to drive out the indulgence of cynicism and 
spite that threatened to chew at his heels if he dwelt on his purpose here. He 
allowed that the drink he religiously denied himself on evenings such as this 
would have tasted grand beyond any passion he'd yet experienced. The imagined 
taste of whiskey burning at the back of his throat was suddenly far more tangible 
than the street, tumbling from a dizzying height like some unnamed African river 
into the churning crevasse of his belly. It was pornography for his tongue, he 
thought, a worthless substitute for the woman he'd not be sharing his bed with.
	Where was the girl, he wondered, glancing along the street. The glare of 
another street lamp blinded him for an instant. None of the silhouetted figures was 
at all suitable, each of them a shapeless clay troll crudely sculpted from the muck 
and rubbish of the gutters and come reluctantly to life. He peered at his watch, 
reassuring himself that it was still several minutes before she was due to appear.
	Something flashed in the street before him, a reflection seen in the corner of 
his eye. He knew it to be familiar before his attention re-acquired it, passing 
effortlessly from one shadow to the next. The car was a Silver Shadow II, 1978 or 
1979, and he allowed himself a moment of empathy for its owner. A few of the 
trolls on the sidewalk had noticed it as well, seeing the flying lady on its radiator 
and the immaculate coachwork of its form.
	She was called 'spirit of ecstasy,' he recalled, modeled after someone's 
secretary at the beginning of the century. Until he'd owned her likeness, however 
briefly, he'd amused himself by thinking her mistress to either Charles Stewart 
Rolls or Henry Royce.
	His own Rolls had been a 1979 Silver Shadow II, bullet-gray with a white roof. 
At the time he'd bought it he'd considered it the culmination of a dream of sorts, 
the car he'd always fancied and never imagined he'd be able to own. Even second 
hand it had cost him more than many of the people he knew made in several years. 
It had been a foolish extravagance, he'd decided, mitigated only by the sudden 
realization that he could afford the thing. It had been paid for by a single job, he 
recalled, with enough left over to keep petrol in the tank.
	People in his line of work didn't drive flash cars, which was why it had seemed 
such a perfect choice at the time. It was the sort of thing a successful stockbroker 
or a doctor might have driven, and he could think of nothing more advantageous 
than to be mistaken for such a man.
	Regrettably, he thought now, as the Rolls before him slipped quietly into the 
desolate evening, his Rolls had been made during one of the infrequently-
mentioned lapses of attention at the Rolls-Royce works in Crewe. It had known 
seven previous owners in as many years before he'd acquired it, something he'd 
later concluded would have been worth paying more attention to at the time. No 
complaint of the car had seemed too trivial to elicit at least a five-hundred pound 
bill, and it had been overfond of the interiors of garages.
	Its final day, he recalled now, had been spent on a drive through a half-
forgotten Kentish village. He'd accelerated unthinking through the principal 
intersection of the place and might well have escaped into the countryside 
unnoticed save for the shrill bleat of a policeman's whistle behind him. The bobby 
had trotted toward him, waving uncertainly, his head distended and misshapen 
with its towering hat.
	"I'm most sorry to stop you, sir," the policeman had begun, somewhat 
breathlessly. "I'm afraid a part of your car appears to have fallen off in the 
intersection. I wonder if I might trouble you to retrieve it."
	The object had been hot and corpulent with grease, unidentifiable as he'd 
deposited it in the boot of the car and grunted his thanks to the policeman. It had 
had the look of something that would cost far more than five-hundred quid to 
reattach.
	The treachery of the Rolls had spent his enthusiasm for automobiles. In time 
he'd come to the conclusion that the true measure of wealth was not in owning any 
car one fancied, but rather in owning no car at all. It pleased him now to hire one 
when he required it, and to allow the garage from which his transient cars came to 
deal with whatever fell off them.
	Where was the girl, he wondered again. He didn't want her visible right at the 
moment, but he would have been comforted in knowing what she was up to. The 
last time he'd done a job this way he'd hired a prostitute to assist him. He'd 
promised her twenty pounds and bought her a plastic watch to help her arrive at 
the appointed time. Her task had been described to her as part of an elaborate 
prank to be played on a friend of his. She'd been far more taken with the watch 
than with the promise of money, but she'd appeared where he'd wanted her to the 
second.
	His present accomplice was motivated by other matters, many of which he was 
uncertain he understood. He reminded himself that she'd done things on his behalf 
far more difficult than what he expected of her tonight. The thought offered him 
no comfort to speak of.
	The book was growing watersoaked and heavy as he pressed it to the frayed, 
patchwork fabric of his coat. It troubled him to spoil it, even if he would be 
abandoning it shortly. He'd purchased it for its size rather than its content, and 
hadn't noticed its title until he'd left the bookshop which had sold it to him. It had 
turned out to be a compendium of three John le Carré novels, and he'd wondered 
if it had represented his subconscious muttering amidst the bedlam of London.
	The people who employed him fancied themselves the stuff of such books, 
spymasters and agents provocateurs. He'd taken to reading le Carré from time to 
time, realizing that much of what they regarded as tradecraft came from espionage 
fiction. It was probably an exercise in good relations to know what they were on 
about when they borrowed phrases from George Smiley or James Bond.
	Had le Carré been translated into German, he wondered, or had his Germans 
read the English-language editions. The thought was distantly amusing.
	He glanced along the sidewalk once more. The man he awaited walked this 
street once each evening. He was punctual. He emerged from a door perhaps 
twenty paces away, turned west and strode at an unvarying pace to the first 
intersection, whereupon he would turn either north or south, presumably as the 
mood took him, and circumnavigate the appropriate block of houses. His 
perambulations required roughly twenty-five minutes, depending upon the 
weather. He spoke to no one, looked at nothing.
	He'd emerged from his front door some twenty-one minutes earlier.
 	The Germans had speculated about dead letter drops and secret signals chalked 
on the lamp posts and walls of the neighborhood. The man clearly had little 
interest in either. He stepped out each evening to take the London air, such as it 
was, and then returned to the paint and paisley of his flat and his hired television.
	The man's name was Abdul Aziss, or perhaps more correctly, he'd entered 
Germany with a passport in that name. He purported to be Iranian by birth, and the 
Germans had speculated that he was a distant relation of the Iraqi foreign minister. 
The matter had seemed irrelevant. What was salient about Abdul Aziss was that he 
longed to blow up an airplane.
	He'd attempted four bombings in Germany. The devices had been disturbingly 
sophisticated, blocks of Semtex plastic explosive wired to digital timers. They'd 
been expertly placed to cripple an aircraft in flight. Clearly, in addition to 
destroying the planes themselves, he'd hoped to rain destruction on the land 
below. Each of the bombs had been discovered by the most tenuous of luck, or as 
one of the Germans had expressed it, by the grace of a god which none of them 
felt comfortable relying on for continued intervention.
	Abdul Aziss had been patently unlucky. On the fourth occasion of his planting 
one of his bombs he'd been videotaped by a security camera. The German 
authorities had missed apprehending him by moments as he'd fled into Holland, 
and from there to Britain. Clearly they'd taken umbrage at the attempts on their 
aircraft and their citizenry. When the British authorities had pleaded a lack of 
sufficient evidence to detain him, the Germans had decided to deal with him 
through other channels.
	He smiled grimly now, recalling the photographs he'd been given of Abdul 
Aziss, the pages of double-spaced typewritten details of the man's life, haltingly 
translated from German. They'd wanted a message sent to whomever had 
dispatched him. They'd wanted him dealt with in a way that would be 
incontrovertible, focused. That was the word they'd used, brennpunkt, and then 
they'd spent several minutes trying to come up with a suitable English equivalent, 
unaware that he'd understood them. Brennpunkt, he thought now as one of the less 
blurred photographs of Abdul Aziss dangled in his thoughts. The burning point, 
where light focused through a lens coalesced into heat and vapor, and blood and 
bone were sublimated into gas. They'd been quite taken with their metaphor when 
they'd finally untangled it.
	They'd asked specifically for the method he'd employed on their behalf several 
years earlier. Bullets, they'd maintained, might thunder down upon one from 
anywhere, for any of a number of reasons. They'd wanted the man dealt with in a 
way that his employers could not mistake.
	He regarded his watch uncertainly. Aziss should be appearing at the corner 
about now, he decided. The weather might have slowed him up by a minute or 
two. Uncertainly he caressed the binding of the book once more, his gloved 
fingertips tracing from the ersatz leather to the intricate surface of machined steel. 
He thought again of the photograph of Abdul Aziss, of the pile of pages it had 
rested atop on his desk, of another page, photocopied from a rather abused edition 
of Gray's Anatomy.
	Gray's was a blueprint for human beings, he'd once considered, and as with all 
such plans it could serve two rather disparate purposes equally well. While it had 
been written to assist those engaged in repairing the machine it described, it was 
equally valuable to anyone wishing to sabotage it. It occurred to him that Abdul 
Aziss had no doubt obtained comparable plans for a Boeing 747.
	The heart was located between the third and fourth ribs, or at least it could be 
assailed from this location. Doing so would require no undue force upon the ribs 
themselves. He'd appreciated some time earlier that this was an important 
consideration in killing a man as he intended. The heart, for all its significance in 
both medicine and poetry, had very little sense of feeling compared to the tissue 
surrounding it. By comparison, the muscles anchored to the ribs that protected it 
would sense the passage of steel driven through them, all the more so if it were 
twisted against the neighboring bone.
	He occasionally felt a pang of guilt in consulting Gray's for his purposes, and 
wondered if he might be granted some form of posthumous dispensation by its 
author for such a use of his work.
	Something moved in the far distance of the street. He peered into the phantom 
of a street lamp, struggling to wrest the details of the figure from the mire of rain 
and fog. A thin, translucent woman woven of the gray evening approached him 
uncertainly.
	It could only have been the girl, he realized suddenly, although she looked 
nothing like when last he'd seen her. Her deep chestnut hair was now dominated 
by a long blond wig. She'd wrapped herself in a red leather skirt that was little 
more than a ribbon around her hips. She walked erratically, poised on monumental 
heels, her legs sheathed in red leather boots. She seemed to be lost in rapt 
contemplation of the unkept skies overhead, occasionally turning to regard the 
half-seen clouds behind her as she proceeded. A large handbag dangled from her 
right hand, swinging at the end of a protracted strap.
	How was it that women could parade about with bare legs in such weather, he 
wondered distantly. The sight of her made him feel the damp and cold all the 
more.
	He turned away from the girl. If she was about, Abdul Aziss had best be on 
time. He was several seconds finding the man amidst a sudden swell of faceless 
bodies. Aziss was plodding rather listlessly forward, the rain clearly not having 
been to his liking. He held a newspaper crushed beneath one arm of a greatcoat 
that would have kept him comfortably warm within ten miles of the south pole. He 
seemed oblivious to everything about himself.
	His fingers explored the binding of the book. He felt a moment's panic when 
he failed to locate the piece of metal where he expected to find it, fearing that it 
had worked its way into the binding. His fingernail caught it through the worn 
leather of his glove at last and he felt it withdraw from its sheath. He deposited the 
book atop the wall behind him.
	The tool had no name. It was an elongated T of blackened carbon steel. The 
handle had been milled to fit his clenched fist. The shaft was a slender needle, 
sharpened at the tip to a point that had seemed to vanish into infinity when he'd 
first regarded it. The Germans had ordered it made to his specifications, and for all 
their ineptitude at catching one incompetent terrorist, they had exhibited an 
unparalleled command of metal-working.
	There was a poetry to good steel, no matter what it had been fashioned to be 
used for. This tool deserved to be prized, withdrawn from oil-soaked rags on 
occasions of note, polished and held to the light. It seemed somehow unforgivable 
that it should be used once and disposed of as he was about to do. He glanced at 
the girl. She was almost upon him now, her attention still seeming to be lost in the 
heavens. She was chewing gum, he noticed fleetingly, clearly another detail of her 
adopted appearance. 
	He glanced about for Abdul Aziss, the man somehow adept at becoming 
invisible in a crush of people despite his uncommon features and oversized coat. 
When he finally located the face he sought it was almost upon him. He felt a pang 
of uncertainty clutch at him, the muscles of his arm and shoulder growing taut as 
he measured the footfalls between them. He could see the girl now in the corner of 
his eye, hear the clatter of her boots on the stone. She would reach him a few 
seconds before Aziss. 
	She stumbled uncertainly, her arms clutching at the air as she struggled to 
regain her balance. Her handbag swung wildly until it impacted against a lamp 
post. The catch broke, its contents spilling noisily across the pavement.
	The girl glanced at the litter of her things before her. "Flamin' nora," she 
cursed loudly in an affected cockney accent as she bent over to retrieve them.
	Aziss appeared before him, the man's eyes suddenly drawn to the form of the 
girl. She was wearing nothing under her skirt, her legs slightly apart. She seemed 
oblivious to his attention as she scrambled after an errant lipstick, muttering 
incomprehensibly to herself. Aziss stopped in mid-stride for an instant, his hand 
suddenly quivering, as if considering whether he might touch the apparition before 
him and assure himself that it was real. The girl hobbled forward slightly, opening 
her legs further still.
	He was certain that Abdul Aziss didn't feel the steel penetrate his back. He put 
his arm around the small, pendulous figure as he pushed the blade home. He felt 
the stiffening of the man's muscles as he realized that he was being assaulted, and 
a moment later the final rush of air from his chest as he slipped into blackness. His 
own arm ached with the release of tension as he pried his fingers from about the 
tool and drove it the final half inch of its journey with the heel of his hand.
	"You all right, guv?" he asked the dead man on his arm. "Fellow in your 
condition shouldn't be fancying the tarts. Best sit down for a sec."
	He guided the slumping figure to a rusted iron bench a few paces away. 
Conveniently, Abdul Aziss seemed content to sit upright, listing slightly against 
the armrest. He appeared quite lifelike there, and with some luck it would be well 
into the following morning before anyone disturbed him. He looked like any of a 
thousand other faceless creatures on the street, and no one would recall him.
	The girl completed her struggle to fetch her straying possessions and righted 
herself, seemingly oblivious to what had just transpired. He allowed himself a 
flickered smile at her as she set off down the sidewalk once more.
	"Good night to you, John Quick," she said quietly in the lilting Welsh accent 
he'd grown used to.
	He said nothing, passing her and carrying on into the soulless evening before 
him.


Own a printed, bound copy of this book. 

You can order on line at http://www.StevenWilliamRimmer.com – click on SHOP – or 
call our toll-free order desk at 1-800-263-1138. 




1


Monday, October 5, 1992
The Island of Aberteyrnas,
Off the coast of Wales

Had the brief summer been something she'd imagined, she wondered, a retreat 
from the despair of the previous few days. She glanced up for what seemed like 
the hundredth time over the previous ten minutes, to view the rain-soaked eternity 
before her. It seemed to stretch on forever beyond the perpetual storm, out across 
the rye grass and the beach to where the bitter Irish Sea gnawed at the stones of 
the island. It was a ruined watercolor before her, painted in an infinite palette of 
gray.
	Her arm had begun to ache an hour earlier, poising the umbrella above herself. 
It was stiff now, complaining with each step she took. She resolved once more to 
ignore it, knowing that she'd passed the umbrella between her hands moments 
earlier, and that her other arm would ache anew if she raised it now.
	Despite the chill and the salt in the air, it would have been pleasing to have 
folded the umbrella, or to have released it to the freshening breeze and allowed the 
rain to soak her dress. She would not, she knew. On this her final meeting with 
John Quick she'd worn the dress he'd most favored her in, a thin cotton thing 
which became disturbingly transparent when it got wet. Beyond her modesty there 
were matters beneath it which she preferred hidden.
	The umbrella had been a questionable comfort in any case. Even standing at 
the graveside, sheltered by the surrounding trees, it hadn't kept her particularly dry 
amidst the swirl of the approaching storm. The hem of her dress was sodden now, 
clutching at her ankles as she walked, the wind alternately releasing it and tangling 
it about her legs. She regarded the heavens once more, seeking to ascertain the 
patience of the clouds. Would they reserve their passion for another quarter of an 
hour, she wondered, and allow her to return to the house at least partially dry.
	It would be good to lose herself in the rain, she thought again, to become a part 
of the storm, to be beyond feelings of grief and emptiness. She smiled at this for 
an instant. It would be good to be soaking wet, to lose whatever tears she still 
retained amidst the clamor of the rain. She regarded the sky out over the sea. Even 
the old gods of the island were crying for John Quick – someone had remarked 
that earlier. They, more than most, would know that he might not deserve their 
sorrow.
	She felt her eyes grow wet again, as they'd done repeatedly during the service. 
She'd first approached the grave with the certainty that she'd had her cry days 
earlier, and that she'd be able to conduct herself with the sort of dignity John 
Quick might have appreciated. She'd hoped that in not seeing him, but merely the 
box said to contain him, she might have retained her composure.
	There should have been some comfort in her not being the first woman to 
succumb to tears. It seemed odd now that she'd not previously met the one who'd 
been led, sobbing and muttering in Welsh, back to one of the waiting cars. In her 
ten years with John Quick she'd known few of his friends, and in time she'd come 
to wonder if he'd actually had any.
	Her foot caught on an uneven cobble, disturbing her reverie. She glanced 
uncertainly about herself, suddenly aware that she was no longer alone. She passed 
the umbrella between her hands, her free hand reaching uncertainly for her thigh. 
It was odd to encounter anyone on this path, and more so in this weather. A figure 
began to assume substance upon the cobbles she'd just walked, approaching her 
with an erratic step that was clearly more hurried than he was used to.
	She was several seconds recognizing the man, and some while more recalling 
his name. Doctor McKay or McKie, she thought absently. He'd been at the grave 
as well. His was one of the few faces she could recall in John Quick's sitting 
room. He was of an age with John Quick – on the dark side of fifty, as John Quick 
had once described himself. That was perhaps the only similarity between them, 
she considered as he hobbled toward her. This man was little like his deceased 
friend. He appeared somehow desolate, his body frail and dissipated beneath a 
coat that seemed far too encumbering for the season.
	He regarded her with hollow eyes as he came abreast of her, the wracking of 
his breath clearly audible above the clatter of the rain. He too held an umbrella, 
she noted, although he'd clearly not managed to defend himself against the 
ravages of the storm with it. The thin gray strands of his hair were pasted to his 
forehead, almost fusing with his eyebrows in places.
	He paused for some while without speaking, regarding her balefully as he 
sought to still the heaving of his chest. He smiled grimly once or twice. When he 
finally spoke it was between gasps, his voice somehow far more robust than his 
person.
	"Miss Gwynn?" he began uncertainly.
	She sought to smile at him. "Emma," she said quietly.
	He returned her smile briefly, proffering an uncertain hand. "Robert McKie," 
he coughed. "I... I knew John Quick."
	She took his hand, thinking that it too seemed more substantial than its owner. 
"I recall you at the house."
	He appeared relieved that he would not be required to explain himself. He 
regarded her for a moment before he spoke again. "I'm most sorry to disturb you... 
at this... time. I wonder if we might have a brief word, though. I didn't wish to 
trouble you at the service."
	"Aye, if you like," she replied.
	He glanced uncertainly about them, seeing little more than the storm as far as 
she could ascertain. "Shall we walk?" he asked.
	She nodded. His step seemed far less determined now, and she was some while 
adjusting her own to remain with him. When he spoke again his voice was barely 
audible above the drumming of the rain on her umbrella and his.
	"I think... I think that John would have wished me to speak with you... under 
the circumstances," he began. "I've known him for quite a few years, you see, and 
I don't imagine there's anyone else to see to his affairs now, except yourself."
	She considered this for a moment. "Really?" she asked. She allowed that the 
notion that John Quick might have had acquaintances in his youth, or for that 
matter that he might have had a youth at all, was out of keeping with her image of 
him.
	"Oh, yes. We were at Eton together." He paused for an instant. "I shouldn't 
think he would have mentioned it."
	"No," she agreed. "He didn't speak much of... of such things."
	"He went on to Cambridge after that. I don't imagine that John looked very 
much like a Cambridge don when you first encountered him," he continued. "Of 
course, he didn't look very much like one when he was one, either."
	She nodded, thinking that John Quick had seemed less like a man of letters 
than anyone she might have known or imagined. In reflection it seemed rather an 
unfair judgment now. His house was obese with books, and he'd clearly been well 
read and erudite. She chided herself silently, thinking that of all people she should 
be the least disposed to disparage him for what he'd been.
	The doctor paused, turning to face her. His features seemed indistinct in the 
shadow of his umbrella, a portrait of indeterminate antiquity occluded by years of 
smoke and darkening varnish. "I think there are some things about John that it's 
your place to know," he said woodenly, his tone suggesting that he'd rehearsed the 
sentence several times before he'd arranged to speak it to her.
	"Besides him having been at school and such?" she inquired, conscious that 
there was a note of irony in her voice now.
	The older man seemed to permit himself a brief smile. "My dear, as you may 
know, I'm the only doctor on the island... unless you want to count the quack in 
the village who does massage and back treatments. It's my unhappy responsibility 
to see to people... who die on Aberteyrnas."
	"Aye," she said.
	"It's popularly believed that John Quick died of a heart attack, but I've 
examined him..."
	She felt her eyes narrow, hearing her heart in her chest as she watched him at 
the edge of her vision. "I see," she muttered, deliberately not turning to face him.
	"What I'm trying to say is that he died of... of unnatural causes."
	For a man whose job it was to touch the fingers of death at frequent intervals 
he wasn't making a very good job of speaking to her of it. "And what causes 
might those be?" she asked evenly.
	"There were three small... puncture marks in his throat. One of them entered 
the jugular vein. I believe someone injected an air bubble into his blood. It killed 
him as soon as it reached his heart."
	She turned to face him, considering his features for a time, trying for an instant 
to imagine him and John Quick as they might have been several decades earlier. 
She let his words replay in her ears, thinking them one more fragment in the 
shattered glass of John Quick's life that had fallen to her to reassemble.
	"I fear that whoever killed John might mean to do the same for you. I think 
that... John would have wanted you to know what became of him..."
	It occurred to her that somewhere in the previous few years John Quick had 
probably instructed her on just how to behave in a situation such as this. He'd 
instructed her about all manner of things, and she was certain she'd forgotten far 
more of what he'd said than she could recall now.
	"Why should anyone want him dead?" she asked uncertainly, wondering if 
she'd sounded suitably disarming.
	"I should think that his profession would have caused a great many people to 
want him dead," Doctor McKie replied, his expression suggesting that such an 
observation might have been sufficiently obvious as to not require mentioning. 
Perhaps he simply didn't wish to be the one to give it voice, she allowed.
	"His... profession?" she asked, thinking as she did that it sounded hollow.
	"I recall that on one occasion of my removing a bullet from some part of John 
or other, he remarked that the drawback to killing people as a means of livelihood 
was that it rather annoyed the ones who remained breathing."
	She stared blankly at him, her thoughts furious and chaotic. He smiled weakly. 
"As I said, my dear, I've known John Quick for quite a few years."
	She exhaled loudly and turned to resume walking. Doctor McKie fell in beside 
her once more, clearly prepared to wait for her to speak.
	"I did actually know that he'd been killed," she began at length. "I was called 
down to identify him, you see. One of his arms fell out from beneath the sheet... 
there were bruises on his wrist, and also under his chin where they held him 
down." She paused, considering what she might say next. "Does it take long to... 
die, as he did?"
	"Not long," he replied. "I'm told there's a sharp pain for an instant when the 
air reaches the heart, but it would be over with almost immediately."
	She heard herself laugh, a sharp bark that rent the stillness of the path for an 
instant and was gone. "It's rather barbaric, I imagine... he always felt that death 
should be quick, even for the ones who deserved worse. It seems a comfort that his 
was." She shook her head to dispel the thought, conscious that there was a fair 
possibility she was making no sense, and a rather better one that she'd begin 
crying in a moment.
	It was some while before he spoke again. When he did his voice was measured 
and sterile, the voice of a physician explaining the nature of a disease to a 
terminally ill patient, she considered. "I believe that it would be for the best if you 
were to leave Aberteyrnas as quickly as possible. I think that's what John would 
have said in this situation."
	She smiled to herself. It was quite the opposite of what John Quick would have 
said, she was certain. It disturbed her to think that this man knew what no one else 
on the island save she herself was privy to. She wondered fleetingly what else he 
might know of her.
	"I was his housekeeper, Doctor McKie," she said evenly. "I can't imagine why 
anyone should want to do me harm."
 	The older man was silent for a time. She listened intently to the cadence of his 
footsteps on the uneven path. Her own made almost no sound as they walked. John 
Quick had given her that as well.
	"He was very proud of you, you know," he said at length. "About two years 
ago we had a wager of sorts over you."
	"Oh yes?" she asked, suddenly curious. It seemed very much out of keeping 
with something John Quick might have done.
	"In order to settle the wager I was compelled to climb that wretched hill behind 
his house and hide myself in the underbrush to watch the two of you shoot."
	"I see. And did you win your wager, then?"
	She imagined that she heard him chuckle above the rain, unwilling to face him. 
"Of course not. I was quite certain I shouldn't. John never entered into a bet in his 
life unless he was certain he could get the better of it. Winning it... wasn't the 
point. John wanted to show someone what he'd done, you see... someone who 
would live to appreciate it."
	"Did I shoot well on that day... when you were hiding in the woods?"
	She saw him glance at her for an instant, as if to ascertain the meaning of her 
question. Truthfully, she thought, there was no way of knowing which occasion he 
was referring to. She'd followed John Quick into the woods three or four times a 
week to refine her skills with various weapons. It had been a ritual far more 
pivotal to her existence than meals or sleep, things which had only taken place 
when physical necessity had driven her to them.
	"I couldn't say. You hit everything you shot at, as he promised you would. He 
said... he said that you could tease twenty yards more from a rifle than its 
designers had given it."
	The sky crackled ominously in the far distance, the rain becoming more 
piquant above them. In other company... in drier company... she might have 
looked away modestly and smiled, as another life had taught her to do. She felt her 
eyes grow wet again. It was troubling to think of him speaking thus of her. He'd 
not said such things to her face.
	"I don't think that John would want you... hurt... after all he taught you." His 
words were kindly and avuncular, spoken perhaps in the tone that John Quick 
might have used to speak of her, rather than to her.
	She considered this for a time. The matter was more complex than the doctor 
would appreciate, she was certain. It seemed that he deserved an explanation, if 
only she might devise one for him. He was another fragment of John Quick she 
was compelled to put right, she thought fleetingly, or perhaps he was the curator of 
a number of them.
	"Did he ever tell you how I came to... work for him?" she asked softly. He was 
some while replying, and for a time she wondered if he'd heard her.
	"No," he replied. "It was one of the things... of the many things, I should say... 
that he chose not to speak of."
	She paused for a time, thinking how she might begin the story. At length she 
decided that it was a sufficiently grotty episode as to make any attempt at 
wreathing it in civility pointless.
	"My family's from mid-Wales," she began, not facing him. "It's why I've not 
the accent they speak with out here. My father and mother didn't fancy each other 
very much. They were divorced when I was twelve. There was a lot of argument 
over which of them should have their things... I was one of the things that was 
argued over. When I was sixteen I left home."
	She glanced at Doctor McKie, who nodded absently.
	"It wasn't actually a terribly clever thing to have done, buggering off like that. 
I'd little enough money and not much of an idea where to get more. I thumbed 
rides a lot, which I don't imagine was terribly clever either. By the time my money 
was gone I was out here, across on the mainland. I overheard someone saying that 
there was work to be had on Aberteyrnas, and I hid on the ferry to get across."
	"And was there?" he prompted her.
	"It seems rather silly now. You have to have had family on the island for three 
generations before anyone in the shops or the hotels will even speak to you. It took 
me about two days to... figure that out."
	She heard the uncertainty in her own voice, trying to imagine what he'd think 
of her when her tale was done. "On the afternoon of my third day on Aberteyrnas I 
was very hungry and very skint... and very desperate... and I went into the Red 
Lion pub in the village and... and I found the first reasonable-looking man in the 
place and offered to go to bed with him if he'd buy me a meal and give me twenty 
quid."
	She'd spoken the words quickly, suddenly annoyed that after a decade the 
incident had lost none of its capacity to embarrass her.
	"And was that John?" the doctor asked.
	"Aye."
	"You'll forgive me asking, my dear, but did he actually..."
	She allowed herself to smile weakly at the question, certain that he had every 
right to ask it. "In a manner of speaking," she replied. "He did buy me a meal and 
he did give me twenty pounds. When we got to his house he gave me a bed of my 
own. The next day he'd decided that after managing by himself for some years he 
was badly in need of someone to see to the place." She turned to face him. "I 
know what they like to say in the village, but I didn't sleep with him.
	"I know," he said quietly.
	She regarded him for a moment, thinking this an odd response to her story. 
	He seemed to sense her unease. "John had a lady friend in the village, my 
dear," he explained, as if in reply to her unspoken question. "Miss Barbara Owen, 
if memory serves. She has a flower shop in the high street. Very much the Welsh 
lady, Miss Owen. Very proper, very nasty temper... I shouldn't imagine she'd have 
put up with him if she'd thought he was sharing his bed with someone else as well. 
She was at the service this morning... perhaps you noticed her."
	Perhaps she had, recalling again the woman who'd finally relented to her tears 
and had left before the service had been complete.
	It occurred to her that her tale was not yet finished, that the thing she'd wished 
him to appreciate had not been spoken of.
	"It was about... two years before he told me what he did for a living... and he 
offered to teach me as well. It was rather longer before it occurred to me why he 
did. It troubled him enormously to think of me... selling myself to earn a living. He 
wanted to teach me a trade so I might support myself. He only knew one trade, 
though, and he taught me that."
	"It does seem an unusual lifestyle for a young woman," the doctor observed.
	She smiled at him, wondering if the incongruity of his remark would occur to 
him in time. "It has its unpleasant aspects, if you care to dwell on them," she 
allowed. "I consider it less objectionable than being a whore. Actually, there have 
been times when I've thought it was very much like being a whore, save that I'm 
expected to sell a different part of myself."
	"How many has it been, then?" he asked quietly.
	She was a moment understanding his question. It seemed an immaterial thing. 
She imagined that he was rather more interested in how she answered than what 
she said.
	"Fourteen," she replied flatly.
	He seemed to ponder upon this for a time. Might he be offended by her 
presence, she wondered, his profession being very much the antithesis of her own.
	"I asked that of John once, you know," he said at length. "He couldn't say... 
he'd long since lost count."
	"It's like the service this morning, if you think of it," she offered, hearing the 
coldness in her voice. "It doesn't particularly matter who died, or how many... 
only that they're gone. Recalling it is of little benefit to them."
	"Do you know who you've killed?"
	The conversation was becoming distasteful, she decided, considering how she 
might redirect it. "Not really," she replied absently. "The first one imported 
heroin. The next was a man who liked to take children off the street and... do 
things with them before he strangled them. There were several more drugs dealers 
after that, I think. After a time I stopped asking."
	The doctor coughed loudly, his voice suddenly more strident. "I used to argue 
with John that there were courts and governments to deal with people like that. 
Never got anywhere with it, of course. I don't imagine I would with you, either."
	"As far as I know all the ones I did were paid for by governments," she said. 
There was a single exception, she suspected, but she chose not to consider it now. 
"Some of the early ones were our government... John Quick used to say that we 
were civil servants working for Maggie Thatcher, save that we weren't entitled to 
a pension. Then there was one for the Americans, two for the French... he did a 
whole string of them for the Germans last year." She glanced at him, wondering 
what he might make of the idea. She'd just recounted well over a dozen deaths 
between herself and John Quick. The thought didn't seem to trouble him unduly. 
"They were all ones that courts hadn't seen to."
	"Perhaps the governments should have been left to deal with them, then," he 
suggested.
	"They were. They hired us."
	She kicked absently at the hem of her dress where it clung to her ankles. She 
might well have cursed John Quick for insisting that she wear the thing, although 
she'd long since come to appreciate his reasons for attiring her thus. She would 
probably have felt uncomfortable now in blue jeans such as she'd worn when 
she'd first come to the island. He'd maintained that a woman was disarming in a 
dress, that she looked vulnerable and unmenacing in such clothes. It was a curious 
thought, she allowed now. The dress permitted her to walk about with a seven inch 
stiletto strapped to her thigh, a part of her wardrobe she'd long since come to 
regard as indispensable as knickers and shoes. 
	"I often wondered whether John's... work... troubled him," the doctor 
continued after a time. "Does it trouble you... however much these people might 
deserve to die?"
	"No," she replied.
	"To kill someone in cold blood..."
	The phrase stung at her awareness for an instant, and she struggled not to recall 
why. The incident it reminded her of was one she'd fancied was long since 
entombed in her thoughts, the lid of its coffin bolted down far more securely than 
the one which covered John Quick. It was curious how little was required to set it 
free once again.
	"He was fond of lessons, John Quick was," she said. "There was a time when I 
thought everything I did save for sleeping and visiting the loo was a lesson of 
some sort. Shall I tell you about my lesson in killing people in cold blood?"
	He nodded imperceptibly, and she wondered if he'd heard the ire in her voice. 
"If you like," he replied.
	I'd like not to, she thought. The lesson had proven particularly useful to her at 
the time, however, and she imagined that it would serve the doctor well enough 
now.
	"When I was nineteen... three summers after I came to Aberteyrnas... I was 
raped by a man on the beach," she began, conscious of the effort required to 
control the anger she still felt if she thought of it. "It was about midnight.... I'd 
gone down to the village for a pint and I decided to walk back along the shore. 
He'd come up with a grand way to keep the girls from turning him down, the 
bastard. He hid in the rocks until I'd gone past and then he jumped out and broke a 
piece of timber across my back. He cracked three of my ribs... I wasn't in much of 
a state to fight him off after that. Actually, I think you saw to them the next day."
	"I recall that... you told me you'd fallen in the woods, or some such."
	She smiled at him reprovingly, wondering that he should question her lying to 
him under the circumstances. "John Quick found me on the beach the next 
morning during one of his five o'clock walks. As he told it, I'd no clothes on, I 
was half in the water and there was a bruise the size of a football down my side."
	"Perhaps it's fortunate that's all that happened to you, me dear. I mean..."
	"When it was all over he dragged me off to a clinic on the mainland... made 
sure I wasn't up the spout or about to die of something nasty. There isn't even a 
scar there now."
	The doctor muttered something unintelligible, and she decided that she'd 
probably succeeded in offending him somewhat. At the time she'd been darkly 
amused that she'd been more comfortable with a complete stranger feeling about 
inside her than John Quick's friend.
	"About two weeks after that a job came up. We went up into the hills on the 
mainland, 'til we came to a cliff looking down into a bit of a valley. There was a 
ratty-looking caravan down there with some people around it getting pissed. John 
Quick got a case with a rifle in it out of the boot of the car, put it together and said 
it might just as well be my turn. He showed me who it was I was to kill and told 
me to get on with it."
	The crags and cathedrals of slate loomed about her once more as she thought of 
that afternoon, recalling her sense of dread and vertigo as she'd eased herself to 
the edge of the outcropping. It had been very much warmer than this day, she 
considered, one of the few occasions of sun in an otherwise dismal summer. The 
rifle had felt cool and reassuring in her arms, its steel redolent of oil, as she'd 
sought to hold it without tormenting her ribs. The rock had been coarse against her 
back where she'd rested, adjusting the scope on the gun, regarding the shell before 
she'd slid it into its chamber.
	"When I looked through the scope of the rifle I was looking at the little shit 
who'd raped me," she said at length. "I've no idea how John Quick found him, and 
he never would tell me. It was... it was like feeling him behind me again, holding 
me down over a rock while he had it off with me. My hand began shaking, and the 
gun began shaking... and I doubt I could have hit him if the barrel had been up his 
arse. After a few minutes I put the gun down and tried to be calm."
	"Did you finally kill him?" Doctor McKie asked quietly.
	"Aye, eventually. I don't know how long I was up there. I'd stop shaking and 
pick up the rifle and see him and it would start over again. I was quite certain that 
they'd all get back in the caravan and drive off before I managed to get 'round to 
it. Actually, all they did was get more pissed. After a long time I heard John Quick 
come up behind me. He started talking... I don't recall what he was on about now. 
I remember he said that I must wait until the man was facing away from me, and 
then take up the gun and finish it before he turned and I could see his face again."
	It seemed like an obvious thing now, and she was certain that if the event were 
to be repeated she would be able to discipline herself and be done with it in rather 
less time than the hours it had taken her on that day. The lad had been blond, with 
his hair cropped short. She'd watched through the scope of the rifle as a tiny black 
star had appeared at the back of his head, and a cloud of blood and brains had risen 
before him. The bullet had been soft-nosed. It had expanded with the impact 
against the back of his skull, tearing most of his face away when it left him. 
Somewhere in the shadows of her awareness she'd heard his friends begin to 
scream as his head had slumped from the tiny cylindrical world of the rifle scope. 
John Quick had taken the gun from her hands, helping her uncertainly to her feet 
and leading her away from the cliff's edge.
	"I fancy that there were two lessons in all that," she continued. "John Quick 
must've been quite pleased. The first one was about killing someone in cold 
blood."
	"Oh yes?" the doctor said, clearly taken to find that her story had eventually 
attained some relation to its ostensible purpose.
	"It requires genuinely cold blood. It isn't a thing to be doing when you're not 
very well... composed."
	"And the other lesson?"
	"Aye... it's what he brought me there to learn, I imagine. I think he knew I was 
uncertain about what he was teaching me... about whether someone saying that a 
man was to die was really sufficient reason to put a bullet through his brain. He 
told me on the drive back that the one I shot had been doing what he did to me for 
several years... that he'd done dozens of women, put some in hospital, killed a 
few. If it had just been John Quick telling me that and saying I was to shoot him, 
I'd have wondered about the rightness of it, too. It was different though. I'd no 
difficulty with killing the little bastard. At least, I didn't once I got the rifle to stop 
shaking."
	She stopped walking and turned to face him once more, regarding the calm, 
weathered eyes that stared back at her. "All the ones that turn up in the crossed 
hairs deserve to be there, doctor," she said softly. "I consider it a great comfort 
now that I've had to take that on faith... for all but that once. I shouldn't like to 
have known the people who've had personal reasons to want them dead. It's 
enough to have been one once."
	John Quick had brought her back to Aberteyrnas that evening and gotten drunk 
with her. They'd begun in one of the pubs in the village and finished up at his 
house. She'd begun crying uncontrollably somewhere during the evening, and 
he'd spent a long while holding her and saying nothing. In a moment of 
questionable lucidity it had occurred to her that he'd known the value of what 
she'd learned that day because he'd learned it himself once. She'd not found the 
words to ask him about her observation, and in time she'd come to appreciate that 
it was one of a body of questions he would not have been disposed to answer.
	The doctor looked away from her. He reached into his coat and withdrew a 
packet of cigarettes and a lighter. Wordlessly she took his umbrella for a moment 
as he struggled with the lighter, cupping it in his hand against the wind. "I still 
think it would be best if you left the island," he said quietly. He took a deep pull 
on his cigarette, its end glowing before the desolate pallor of his features.
	She allowed herself to be startled by him for a moment, having felt certain that 
he'd long since abandoned his original purpose in speaking to her. She decided at 
length that he knew enough about her, and there was little cause not to explain the 
rest. If nothing else, it would still his insistence.
	"I can't," she said firmly. "There have been times over the past days when I've 
thought of having someone shoot half my head away and I've wanted nothing 
more than to leave. I can't"
	"I don't understand."
	"I've not been to one of the labor exchanges on the mainland, so I can't say for 
certain, but I don't imagine there's a lot of call for freelance assassins. I can't just 
tie a few guns to my back and go out into the world looking for employment."
	"There are other things you can do," he offered, his tone suggesting that it 
might have been obvious.
	"Doctor, I can't even collect dole. I've five passports, none of them in my real 
name, and all manner of papers without a word of truth on them. I've never 
worked for anyone, I've never paid poll tax... I don't even have a credit card in my 
real name. John Quick arranged to have the record of my birth certificate 
destroyed. The birth certificate I have now is for a girl who died at the age of two 
weeks twenty-six years ago in a place called Llanndovery. I've not even been 
there."
	Beyond her legal inability to find work, she thought sourly, she had little to 
interest a conventional employer. She'd spent the previous few years peripherally 
aware that while she and John Quick had been comfortably employed, most of the 
rest of the country had been quietly disintegrating on the mainland. In a land thick 
with skilled people out of work, she had little illusion about her ability to support 
herself.
	The doctor seemed about to speak again and she decided that it would be well 
if the subject were dealt with. She had the advantage of him, she knew. In the days 
between John Quick's death and his burial she'd had little to do save to think. 
She'd worked her way through the tortuous reasoning that limned the silhouette of 
his last days.
	"He had a job on," she continued. "It was someone on the island. Whoever it 
was found out John Quick had been contracted to kill him, and chose to kill his 
assassin first. Now it's my concern... it's left to me to complete it."
	"Did he tell you all that?" the doctor asked uncertainly.
	"I know that he had a job... he behaved differently when there was work. It's 
hard to describe. I know it was on the island because it wasn't off the island..."
	"And how do you know that?"
	She heard herself sigh, reminding herself that he'd not been privy to her 
reasoning over the previous few days. "If we had work on somewhere he fancied 
making it seem as if we were going on holiday. If it was out of the country he'd 
book coach tours and whatnot along with the airplane tickets. If it was in Britain 
he'd hire a car from a garage on the mainland and have it waiting at the car-park 
where the ferry docks. We'd go off with suitcases and silly hats. There've been no 
airplane tickets in the post and the garage hasn't rung to say that the car's 
waiting."
	"It was my understanding that John disliked performing his work on 
Aberteyrnas," the doctor said. "He didn't enjoy the prospect of bodies appearing 
this close to his home."
	"Aye, well, there've been times when there was no other way," she allowed. "I 
fancy this is one of them."
	He was silent for a time. "Do you really think John would have meant for you 
to finish this... work?" he asked at length, his voice scarcely audible.
	"He used to say that he was only as good as his last job," she replied, as much 
to herself as to him. "When I find out who it is I'm to kill I shall most probably 
know who's hired me to kill him. They won't mind whether it was John Quick or 
John Quick's housekeeper that did the work, only that it's done. If I don't make a 
right cock-up of it there'll be more work. They'll say... they'll say that he trained 
me well, and in a way it will be as if he hadn't died at all."
	She felt her eyes grow wet again and turned away from him.
	"I wonder that he could have brought you into this business," the doctor was 
saying. "I can't say that it's a proper thing for anyone to be doing... it's certainly 
no place for you. He had no call to expose you to the danger of his life..."
	She returned her attention to him. "No, you don't understand at all," she 
interrupted him, aware that she'd begun crying. "It's a wonderfully safe 
profession... most of the time. I've learned to use all manner of things to protect 
myself." A wisp of memory clutched at her awareness. "Would you like to hear 
about the most dangerous job he ever took me on?" she asked.
	The doctor nodded, but she had the sense that he was humoring a sobbing 
woman.
	"It was three years ago in London. We were to do a man... an airplane terrorist, 
I think he was. John Quick had me wear a dreadfully short skirt and no knickers. 
The man walked down the street toward us. At the right moment I dropped my 
handbag and bent over to pick it up. I could see him, as he noticed my bare arse 
there on the street and forgot everything else. The last thing he knew was when 
John Quick pushed a long needle into his back and burst his heart, set him down 
on a bench and walked off. I was in terrible danger of being groped by him just 
before he died."
	She smiled bleakly to herself. The tale was true enough, as far as it went. It 
ignored the numerous jobs that John Quick had simply refused to discuss with her, 
or to bring her along on, as well as several which had gone wrong unexpectedly. It 
also ignored his ultimate fate, which she might have agreed seemed to belie her 
assertion of the low risk of her adopted craft.
	"I think he was always rather aware of the possibility that I might be hurt 
somehow... and he was always troubled by it," she continued. Another fragment of 
recollection occurred to her. "I don't imagine he ever told you about my birthday 
present..."
	The doctor seemed puzzled by this, and shook his head. She brushed her hand 
across her eyes and continued.
	"It was really rather nice, in its way. It was when I turned twenty. I don't think 
I'd had a birthday present since I'd lost interest in dolls, what with my parents 
throwing things at each other most of the time. I woke up and found a wrapped-up 
package outside my door, with a bow and a card. He must've been up half the 
night doing it... he was terrible at such things."
	"And what was your present?" he asked, his tone suggesting that he was aware 
that he was intended to.
	"It was a Glock 17," she replied. Clearly he didn't know what she was on 
about. "It's a nine-millimeter pistol," she added. "He'd glued two squares of white 
plastic to the hand grips and painted red L's on them, like the learner's plates on a 
car when you're studying for a driving license."
	She watched him for a moment, seeing him smile faintly. "That seems very 
much in keeping with John's notion of humor," he allowed.
	"I imagine it's the sort of thing most people would find in questionable taste," 
she said. "I thought it was funny. The thing of it is, though, you wouldn't kill 
someone with a gun like that. I mean, you wouldn't do a job with one."
	"And why is that?"
	"It's a dirty great gun, but if the man you wanted to kill was more than a few 
yards away you'd use a proper rifle. If he was close enough you'd use something 
less noisy... a knife, most likely. A gun like that's to protect yourself with. It's 
why he gave it to me."
	The doctor said something unintelligible, and she asked him to repeat himself.
	"I was hoping it manages to protect you... I hope you get to use it on 
whomever killed John before they use theirs."
	She nodded, able to think of nothing more to add to the sentiment. She'd 
thought of little else for the previous few days. She had watched the result of what 
John Quick had described as an argument between bullets and bones on numerous 
occasions, most often in the unreal, magnified eternity of a rifle scope. It had not 
occurred to her then that she might meet the same fate as some of the recipients of 
her bullets. They'd had the luxury of not knowing that their bullets were 
approaching them until the instant their heads had been torn to shreds of flesh and 
sinew. She'd known her own death countless times in the blackened depths of her 
imagination since John Quick had died.
	"I was thinking," the doctor said, disturbing her consideration. "You keep 
referring to the person who killed John as a man. It could just as easily be a 
woman."
	She smiled absently, deciding that it was kind of him to offer his assistance, 
even in something so trivial. "No, it certainly couldn't be a woman," she said.
	"Why might that be?"
	"John Quick refused to accept jobs that involved doing women," she 
explained. "Didn't you know that?"
	He seemed to muse over the thought, clearly perplexed by it. "No, I can't say 
that I did."
	She glanced up at the bruised, swollen clouds above them, regarding the 
familiar trees that lined the path like drunken sentries. It pleased her to think that 
there was something of John Quick that she knew and the doctor did not. "We're 
almost at the house," she said. "Shall I tell you one more story of him?"
	The doctor grunted something that seemed like a reply, gesturing uncertainly 
with his free hand.
	"He had a pet name for me," she said, gazing into the rain. "He called me Eye 
of the Dawn."
	"That seems rather too poetic for John," the doctor offered. "I imagine it meant 
something."
	"Aye," she agreed. "I didn't know what it meant, actually, until just the other 
day when I was going through some of his things. I found an old photograph in a 
book. It was a lot older than John Quick. It was of a girl about my age, not 
wearing much of anything... the sort of picture he might have fancied. Quite 
attractive, she was. Her name was Margaretha Zelle. She was born in 1876, in 
Holland. She married an army officer and went out with him to the Dutch East 
Indies, to the island of Java. Her husband was a bit of a bastard, and the women on 
the island taught her their dancing to give her something to do away from him. Not 
the usual sort of dances, they were... very sexy dances, for fertility and such. After 
a time she came back to Europe and became quite famous, dancing. She called 
herself by the name the women in Java had given her... Eye of the Dawn"
	"I see," the doctor said uncertainly. "Or, rather, I don't."
	"Do you know what Eye of the Dawn is in Javanese?" she asked softly.
	He shook his head, regarding her curiously.
	"Mata Hari," she said.
	His eyes narrowed. "Oh, yes... wasn't she a spy in the first world war?"
	"No... that was rather the point of it, of John Quick naming me that. She 
offered to spy for the Germans, and she slept with most of the important men in 
Europe, but it's unlikely she ever managed any proper spying. In 1917 the war was 
going badly for the French and they thought to blame their troubles on German 
spies. She was rather famous, so they arrested her and put her in front of a firing 
squad. It was easier than having all their generals and such admit they'd no idea 
what they were up to."
	She glanced uncertainly at her feet. A breath of wind tugged at her umbrella, 
finding its way under her dress and fondling her with damp, icy hands. She 
struggled not to shiver. "I suppose it was the sort of thing John Quick would do... 
he gave me that name to remind himself of something. I can't say whether it was 
about me or about the women he was asked to kill now and again... perhaps It was 
both."
	"I shouldn't think that women are any less capable of doing vile things than 
men are," Doctor McKie offered.
	"I fancy he would have agreed with you... but he still wouldn't have killed 
them for it. There were a lot of things like that about him."
	She saw his features soften for a moment as she watched him through the 
corner of her eye. It would have been rather comforting to have spent an afternoon 
recalling John Quick with him, she thought absently.
	"The house is just past those trees," she said, gesturing at a line of indistinct 
shadows through the rain. "It's been very kind of you to walk me home and... can I 
offer you a drink?" 	The doctor smiled and shook his head, suddenly seeming 
small and weary once more. "No," he replied. "I really must be getting back. I've 
had my assistant from the surgery leave my car in the lane just ahead. I'm 
expected back in the village for tea."
	She returned his smile and glanced away.
	They rounded a bend in the path and came upon a fork. In the distance, just 
before the rain engulfed all light and perception, she noticed the ill-defined bulk of 
a car. She'd seen it several times outside John Quick's house when Robert McKie 
had come to share his whiskey. It was a rather impressive white Jaguar when it 
was seen up close, the sort of car she'd found herself noticing when one passed her 
in the street. He made for it now.
	"Doctor," she called.
	He turned once more to face her.
	"Thank you... for speaking to me," she said, conscious that she was all but 
shouting to be heard over the rain.
	He gestured dismissingly. "Not at all, my dear," he said.
	"I should be most grateful if you'd not speak to me again for a time," she 
continued. "I should not want... one of John Quick's friends to be hurt on my 
account."
	He stood regarding her for an unaccountably long while before he turned and 
resumed plodding toward his car. She watched him search about in his pockets for 
a time, clearly unable to locate his keys. He regarded the rear wheel of the car for 
a moment and then seemed to find what he'd been after. He unlocked the door and 
clambered inside, wrestling with his umbrella for some seconds before it followed 
him into the blackness within.
	She chose the fork in the path that would return her to the house. The 
desolation of the island seemed absolute, but she knew that it was a lie the storm 
was amusing itself with. There were rather too many inhabitants on Aberteyrnas at 
the moment, and amongst the businessmen who'd arrived to use the conference 
rooms of the hotels and the final couples of the season who'd come to screw in the 
anonymity of the fortnight cottages there was one of them whom she must locate 
and kill.
	"This is another of your bloody lessons, John Quick," she said harshly into the 
storm. For a moment it didn't seem beyond him to have arranged his own death to 
illustrate something he wished her to know. The thought was comforting, however 
fanciful it might have been. If it were true, she allowed, he might well abrogate his 
demise when she'd finally grasped the lesson.
	"School's done for the year, girl," she muttered to herself, suddenly 
unaccountably angry at the meandering of her thoughts. She envisioned the Glock 
where it rested in her bedroom, in a drawer with her knickers. It was quite illegal 
to own such a thing, and as such all but impossible to get ammunition for. She'd 
reloaded each of the shells that slept within it.
	"School's done for the year," she repeated. "It's about time you had yourself a 
proper job."
	She glanced at where she imagined the house should be, still only a darkened 
sore against the storm, and quickened her step.


Own a printed, bound copy of this book. 

You can order on line at http://www.StevenWilliamRimmer.com – click on SHOP – or 
call our toll-free order desk at 1-800-263-1138. 





2


Tuesday, July 10, 1990
Valetta, Island of Malta

The glutinous bite of the sea teased at his awareness as he walked, a tangible 
reminder of the peculiar geography of the city. Thrust out into the middle of an 
inlet of the Mediterranean, it seemed clenched in a fist of rotting piers and jetties, 
swarming beaches seething with tourists, the oil and rust and growling machinery 
of shipyards. The day had been born in an incandescent rage, growing hotter still 
as it had found its sweaty adolescence in the narrow streets. Each breath was a 
labor now, flinty and stained with the aromas of a harbor he could taste but not yet 
see.
	The street was a jostling row of limestone buildings, each distinct, rotted and 
scarred with decades of the summer's pitiless barbarity. Their walls looked to have 
been colorful once, now leeched to brown and the yellow of soured milk. 
Overhead a tangle of telephone wires fragmented the sky, the remnant of some 
enormous child's game with a length of butcher's string.
	The shops bellowed with a riot of different ages, different aspirations for trade. 
The one before him was decorated with Pepsi Cola banners, and it stared blankly 
across the street at one with the signboard of Mackintosh's Quality Street 
Chocolates and Toffees dangling above its door. How long had it been since the 
British had relinquished Malta, he wondered absently. So much of the tawdry 
regalia of England seemed to have been left behind, papered over here and there 
with crudely made political posters and handbills pasted to the walls.
	Something buzzed unseen in the liquid air before him and he swatted at it. The 
effort of movement was in itself exhausting. His translucent shirt was pendulous 
with sweat. His arms had become tainted with sores born of the plague of a 
Mediterranean summer. His stomach had rebelled at the place when he'd first 
stepped from the air-conditioning of the aircraft that had abandoned him here. It 
was now awash with something made of cheese and doughy pastry, held together 
with substances best uncontemplated and washed down with coffee that could 
have further decayed the walls of the buildings about him, had he been sufficiently 
vandalous to have allowed it to escape the plastic cup in which it had been served.
	He struggled through the tepid crowds of Europeans and locals, most of the 
faces wrinkled and drawn with a life poised between two continents and the 
vicissitudes of this arid place.
	Something shifted minutely in the shadows of an alley beside him. He peered 
into the gloom, the suggestion of a female silhouette fluctuating in the hot, oily 
darkness and vanishing. He had a momentary glimpse of Ferrari-red lips, 
elongated eyelashes, a skirt slit almost to her waist.
	"Want a good time?" a voice inquired.
	He waved dismissingly at its source, preparing to carry on down the street, 
until he realized that it had been an odd voice. It had been an English voice, he 
decided. He looked absently at the boiling whiteness of the sky, thinking it rather 
early for even the most ambitious prostitute to be about her chosen career.
	"Would you fancy a good time, John Quick?" the voice insisted. Its accent had 
changed, he realized, and its tone was faintly irritated. Glancing about himself, he 
stepped uncertainly into the alley.
	The girl stared at him for an instant through garishly made-up eyes. A ruined 
Fiat sputtered by in the street beyond, the stink of its exhaust momentarily finding 
ascendancy over the fetid air of the harbor. 
	"The eye of the dawn is opening in the strangest of places these days," he 
muttered, conscious of an edge of anger in his voice that she could not fail to 
appreciate. "I don't suppose I want to know what the hell you think you're doing 
here."
	"It's good to see you too," she said, glancing past him into the street.
	She'd rarely hazarded to question him when he'd refused her permission to 
accompany him on a job, and this was the first occasion of her turning up in the 
middle of one unexpectedly. There was something out of place in her composure, 
he allowed. She'd get a proper ragging-out when they were alone, but she didn't 
seemed concerned by it. Despite the deathlike fatigue which had all but entombed 
him in the hours that he'd been adrift in the streets of Valetta, he felt the tickle of 
disquiet along the back of his neck, a tightening of muscles.
	This had been a job that he'd not even considered bringing her in on. It was 
one he would ordinarily not have accepted himself. The man was named Augustin 
Verhaeren, Algerian, of a Belgian father and an Algerian mother. He had a villa on 
the island. He'd purchased it through the rewards of his labors, abducting young 
women from the streets of Europe and selling them in northern Africa.
	The truth of it was that his own stay on Malta could have been considerably 
shorter and less oppressive if he'd had recourse to Emma's eye and her almost 
demonic skill with a rifle. She could have lain in the grass of the hill overlooking 
Verhaeren's retreat and finished him in under a second. He'd considered trying it 
himself when first he'd alighted on the island. It was not to be, he'd realized. The 
man was nervous, acutely aware of the desire of both the local authorities and the 
police of several nations to see him vanish into the sea surrounding his adopted 
land. To have missed him would have been to have driven him into shadows from 
which he might never be extricated.
	As he'd begun anew his trudge through the city this morning, following 
Verhaeren through a languid peregrination of shops and restaurants, he'd 
had the opportunity to consider his unwillingness to send for her, to put an 
end to his torment. He'd been comforted by the thought of her safely 
ensconced in Wales, well away from the man he sought.
	"I left you behind for a reason, girl," he snapped angrily, abandoning all 
pretense of civility.
	"I'm certain you did," she agreed. She glanced once more toward the mouth of 
the alley. "You've had a FAX come in that I fancied you'd be wanting to know 
about."
	"A FAX?" he demanded.
	"One of the usual sort... a chatty letter about how the weather is in Britain, 
asking after your health, are you enjoying the summer. It was one of those FAXes 
that only the name of the bloke it's from matters, I imagine. I should think you're 
to get in touch with him for a proper message."
	"I could have seen to it when I returned..." he began.
	She glared at him, as if she'd suddenly had enough of his irritated tone. "It was 
from a Mister Alain Molière."
	He turned away from her. Alain Molière was an official in the Police 
Nationale, the French police. They'd met on several occasions. "Bloody hell, 
woman," he hissed. "I know about that. It's why I'm here to begin with."
	"It came in yesterday," she continued evenly.
	He returned his attention to her. "It came in two weeks ago."
	"Aye, and another one came in yesterday. Don't you think it odd that Mister 
Molière would ask you to take on a job for him if he knew you were down here in 
the middle of doing one?"
	He considered this, the air in the alley suddenly thick with his own sweat, all 
but unbreathable.
	"Listen to me," she insisted. "There've been at least four men following you 
since you left your hotel this morning, They're good... they change about every 
twenty minutes or so."
	"How would you know that?" he demanded.
	"Because I've been following you since I got off the airplane. Shall I tell you 
where you've gone today?"
	He heard his heart hammering in his temples, felt the crush of the stone walls 
on either side of them. He'd been set up and he was within sight of whatever trap 
had been devised for him. Was he meant to die on Malta, he wondered fleetingly, 
or to spend the rest of his days in a cell for having been tricked into murdering one 
of its citizens. He allowed himself a moment's consideration of the face of the 
man he'd been following the past few days, certain now that it would not match 
the name he'd learned to associate it with. To remain in this place, every breath 
like drowning, the flies crawling across the sweaty filth of his skin...
	"Do you know how many of them are out there now?" he asked quietly, 
distantly aware that he'd begun whispering.
	"Still four, I'd imagine," she replied. 
	They would be armed, he was certain, and in all likelihood they'd be 
accustomed to the luminous heat of the day. He was neither. He willed himself to 
be calm, to see past the agony of indecision that threatened to cripple him. He 
regarded the garish, plastic features of the girl. He must leave her, he knew. She 
would be reasonably safe as soon as there was some distance between them. He 
considered how he would tell her so.
	"You've been three days in this place, John Quick," she said, her voice 
suddenly strident and demanding. "You're not thinking very well. You didn't see 
them... you didn't see me, and I'm not difficult to notice, done up like this."
	He nodded absently. She seemed to favor dressing up like a tart when she had 
the chance to play-act, he considered. He reminded himself that this was not one 
of the occasions of the casual deceptions he often put her up to.
	"There's a taxi just to the south of here," she continued. "At least, there was 
when last I looked. Its driver was asleep with a newspaper over him. You're going 
to pretend to have picked me up now, and we'll walk to the taxi. We'll be at the 
airport in a few minutes. Both of us."
	He opened his mouth to protest, but he could think of little to say.
	"I believe you're supposed to pay me," she added.
	He forced himself to smile. "I understand that the custom is to pay the woman 
after," he corrected her.
	"Aye, well, I knew I was never qualified for decent employment," she 
muttered. She took his hand and placed it about her waist. After a moment's 
consideration, she readjusted it, so it rested on her backside. With an unhurried 
pace she led him from the alley into the unyielding glare of mid-day. He resisted 
the desire to glance about them, to identify the members of the seething crowd 
who'd been dogging his steps.
	She gestured at length at a decrepit black taxi parked some way down the 
street, presumably where she'd anticipated it.
	"I'll be much in your debt for this, girl," he said quietly.
	"Aye, you will be that," she agreed without facing him. "I'm afraid I was quite 
skint... all this has gone on that credit card you gave me and said I was never to 
use. I fancy there'll be quite a bill for it when we get back."








Monday, October 5, 1992
Aberteyrnas

The house was an early Victorian monstrosity of crumbling brick, windows gone 
green with age and chimney pots that lunged at the sky from erratic locations 
about the mossy slates of its roofs. John Quick had told her once of its history, that 
it had been the summer home of some lord or other well over a century earlier, 
when Aberteyrnas had enjoyed one of its periodic renaissances as a retreat for the 
well-heeled. He'd always seemed remotely displeased by its past, and she'd 
fancied during one of his dissertations about the place that he would have enjoyed 
it considerably more if it had once been the island's principal brothel.
	The view from its upper windows was rather grand, she allowed as she 
approached the sodden, truculent expanse of its gardens now. The house was 
clutched in a meadow set into the hillside of one of the outcroppings of rock that 
formed the island. When it had first been built, she imagined, its owners might 
have regarded tea clippers and British warships passing in the distance. The 
vessels that had dotted the ocean during her occupation of the house had been 
reduced to fishing boats and the toys of weekend buccaneers.
	The path to the front door was a ribbon of worn slate, karakuls of wild grass 
carefully beaten back between them. The stones looked oily and distantly 
treacherous, polished by entirely too many feet for hers to find purchase on them. 
The aged hedgerow that confined the path was manicured and perfect, save for the 
places which had chosen not to bear leaves this season. The dead patches had 
grown slightly larger with each year she'd walked the path. Did there come a time 
when the life of a hedge approached its end, she wondered, much as did those who 
tended it.
	She mounted the steps to the front of the house, grateful at least to be able to 
lower her umbrella. Water skirled from its surface as she shook it and allowed it to 
collapse. She regarded the weathered face of the door, its central window frosted 
with damp and all but opaque. The latch turned beneath her hand, protesting 
faintly.
	The latch, like most of the elements of the house, was probably also a 
Victorian monstrosity, she considered. John Quick had listened patiently to her 
suggestions that various failings of the house be seen to, but he'd been of the 
opinion that if all the cracked, worn, rusted or clapped-out parts of the structure 
were to be replaced, little more than the original front path would be left. The 
observation had seemed to suit him as sufficient cause to ignore anything that 
wasn't genuinely falling away from the house.
	The interior of the hall beyond the front door seemed impenetrably dank, as if 
it had remained unused since the departure of its first owner. Her eyes cast about 
the appointments of room, the staircase before her, several nondescript pictures 
that she'd found at curio shops over the years for a few quid and hung to cover 
some of the larger cracks in the plaster. She was uncertain for a moment how 
much of the room she could actually see and how much she had reconstructed 
from memory.
	Absently she let her hand grope about for the light switch beside the door. It 
snapped over with only token reluctance, but the house grew no less stygian. She 
cursed softly and tried it again, thinking as she did that its failure to work the first 
time largely assured that it would remain inoperative on subsequent invocations.
	"Gwen..." she shouted into the darkness. She tied her umbrella and dropped it 
into an enormous porcelain spice jar beside the door which had served John Quick 
as an umbrella stand. It had also served him as an ash tray and as a place to chuck 
bits of paper, she recalled, and had required periodic emptying.
	The house seemed to echo with its brooding, ageless silence. "Gwen..." she 
called again.
	She heard the distant clatter of footsteps, uncomfortable leather shoes on 
polished wood, suddenly muted by their transition to one of a number of Indian 
rugs that were sufficiently old and ratty to have been brought back from the east in 
the days of the raj. She glanced patiently down the inky darkness of the passage 
before her until the gloom seemed to coalesce into a human form. The figure of a 
girl a few years younger than herself swelled toward her.
	She imagined that John Quick had come to like the idea of having staff about 
the house, once he'd become inured to her presence. In time he'd instructed her to 
arrange for someone to tend the kitchens, and he'd subsequently installed a 
gardener in a hitherto unused cottage at the periphery of his estate. She recalled 
imagining at the time that help would be difficult to find on Aberteyrnas, but this 
had proven not to be the case.
	Gwen might well have looked like most of the other girls in the village, she 
thought absently, save for her adopted station in the house. At the behest of John 
Quick she wore a maid's uniform that seemed as if it should have been out of 
fashion at the time of the construction of the house. She had anointed herself with 
the manners and speech of a domestic, although it seemed likely that she'd learned 
them from something she'd seen on the telly.
	The girl paused before her and curtsied slightly, the gesture seeming somehow 
too perfect, as if she'd spent the morning practicing it. "Ma'am," she said 
tonelessly, her eyes flashing in the darkness.
	Emma smiled faintly, aware that the girl would not be able to see her. Gwen 
seemed to posses a vocabulary of a dozen phrases suitable for a housemaid to utter 
in the presence of those not below the salt. They were rather convincing unless she 
was asked to extemporize beyond them. They seemed to clash rather pointedly 
with the impenetrable Welsh accent that otherwise enlivened her speech.
	"Is the electric gone?" she asked.
	"Aye, ma'am," Gwen replied. "It went out shortly after you left for the service 
this morning, ma'am. I was uncertain who I might call to have it mended."
	She glanced about the hall, allowing that she was uncertain herself who might 
attend to it. It was the sort of thing that John Quick would have known. She'd 
fancied herself quite capable of looking after the affairs of the household before 
he'd died. The times over the previous week when circumstances had conspired to 
illustrate her helplessness seemed beyond counting.
	"Is it the whole house, then?" she inquired absently.
	"Aye, ma'am."
	She cursed silently. The fuse box for the house was a seething, encrusted terror 
in a disused pantry beyond the kitchens, but she'd arrived at an accommodation 
with it years earlier. She was uncertain what one did when it proved not to be 
culpable for the darkness.
	"I've lit a fire in the sitting room, ma'am," Gwen continued. "I've also lit one 
in the old stove, and there's coffee if you'd fancy some."
	She smiled at the girl, conscious of the tremor of uncertainly in Gwen's voice. 
It had grated on her speech for the previous week, like something about to go 
wrong in John Quick's feckless Rolls before he'd finally sold it.
	"That's lovely, ta," she said.
	Gwen seemed about to return to her kitchens, uncertain whether it was her 
place to say anything further. At length she appeared to resolve herself. She 
glanced at a small occasional table. "The post came this morning, ma'am," she 
began evenly. "You'll forgive me, ma'am, but I couldn't help noticing that it's a 
letter from a solicitor."
	The girl retrieved two letters from the table and proffered them to her. She 
accepted them with what she decided was justified reluctance, nodding at Gwen.
	She'd known the source of Gwen's discomfort for some days, she allowed, 
although she'd not cared to consider it. It had seemed too much like one of the 
disused rooms of the house which, once opened, would turn out to require the 
combined efforts of them both to put right. Gwen had hardly known John Quick. 
She'd served his meals, tidied his house and vanished below stairs when she was 
not required. It had seemed a relationship which had suited them both. The girl 
had been appropriately saddened when she'd been told of the demise of her 
employer, Emma allowed, but her real grief had been over the impending loss of 
her position.
	She could not find it in herself to spite Gwen for her concerns. The prospect of 
finding herself without a home or a future had gibbered and screeched at her over 
the previous few days.
	The awkward part of it was that Gwen seemed to think that the matter was in 
her hands. The girl had redoubled her efforts about the house of late, as if to attest 
to her continued worth.
	Emma glanced at the silent figure before her. I should very much like to 
reassure you that your job will be safe, girl, she thought. It would almost certainly 
be a lie.
	She turned her attention to the envelopes in her hand. Merricomb, Pettigrew 
and Baxter, she thought absently, wondering how it was that people with pedantic, 
stuffy names always seemed to gravitate toward being lawyers. Which of them 
had been John Quick's solicitor, she mused as she slit the top of the envelope with 
her thumbnail. It turned out to be someone named Margaret Sothby-Jones (Mrs). 
Perhaps his legal matters had not been sufficiently weighty to concern a full 
partner in the firm.
	It seemed a point of status to have both a hyphen and parentheses in one's 
name, she considered, allowing the notion to amuse her for a moment. She stared 
unthinkingly at the page before her.
	Gwen shuffled her feet uncertainly. Emma glanced up at the girl, whose 
expression had become one of annoyed patience.
	"It says that I'm to attend the offices of Merricomb, Pettigrew and Baxter 
Wednesday next at one in the afternoon, if that will be convenient," she read, 
affecting what she imagined would be the formal tone of a lady barrister with a 
hyphenated surname. "At this time the will of the late Mister John Patrick Quick 
will be read." The letter continued for another paragraph, but she decided that it 
had spoken its piece. She regarded Gwen for a moment, deciding that it had done 
little dispel the girl's unease.
	"Did you know that John Quick had a middle name?" she asked.
	Gwen stared at her for a moment, clearly thinking the question irrelevant. "No, 
ma'am," she replied curiously.
	"Neither did I." She folded the letter and returned it to its envelope. It seemed 
the harbinger of paper to come.
	The second envelope did not have a firm's address printed on it, and after 
regarding it for a moment she was curious to find that it, too, had been addressed 
to her rather than to John Quick, as virtually all the post had been for the previous 
week. Uncertainly she tore it open and extracted the page within.
	For a moment she was certain the envelope had contained a blank sheet of 
paper, and she peered into it to see if it might offer anything further. It was 
otherwise empty. She regarded the page once more, her eyes seeking details on its 
surface in the tepid light of the hall. At length she realized that someone had 
written on it in a very light hand with a hard pencil. The words before her were 
unintelligible. She glanced overhead at the inoperative light fixture, cursed softly 
and turned toward the sitting room to her left. Gwen curtsied again in the corner of 
her eye and vanished toward the kitchens.
	The sitting room of John Quick's house was a curious place, she'd observed on 
occasion. It was rather too large to be comfortable most of the time. Its great 
vaulted ceilings seemed to draw the heat to themselves in the winter, and it was 
possible to sit about shivering despite a fire blazing in the hearth at the near end of 
the room. With sufficient lamps burning most of the shadows could be dispelled 
from the great mahogany cavern – it was difficult to imagine what it would have 
been like a century earlier, when it had been illuminated by oil lamps or candles.
	Perhaps more than any other room in the house, she thought as she regarded it 
now, this had been the place where she'd been treated as what she had imagined 
served John Quick as a friend, rather than as his apprentice. It had been unusual 
enough to encounter him here – it had been agreed between them that nothing of 
consequence was to be discussed where Gwen might overhear it.
	For a time the room had retained a vestige of the function intended for it when 
the house had been built, she recalled, smiling. It had been a place to lie about and 
watch television. John Quick had not been greatly impressed with the worth of 
what appeared on the telly when she'd first come to stay with him, and his dislike 
for the box and its programs had seemed to swell and itch within him whenever he 
entered the room and found it on. Two years earlier a man had appeared at the 
front door seeking eighty-six pounds for the annual television license and John 
Quick had presented him with the television instead. "It's not terribly heavy," he'd 
offered the sputtering fellow as he'd deposited it in his arms. "Sod off and chuck it 
in the sea for us, there's a good lad."
	Gwen had a small television of her own in her room at the back of the house, 
which John Quick had pretended not to know about.
	The room seemed a relic now, immaculately dusted by Gwen every other day 
or so, its appointments refined and impeccable. All the pictures were straight, the 
furniture apportioned about the room as if in conjunction with some astrological 
calculation, the worn patches in its carpets all well disguised. The sitting room had 
died some while before John Quick, she thought curiously, and had lain in state 
thereafter, no one caring much to disturb it.
	She glanced about the room, conscious once more of the letter in her hand. The 
windows seemed no less opaque from the inside and she drifted unthinking toward 
the one at the front of the room, overlooking the sea through a tangle of hedges 
and stunted trees. The glass was frosted with moisture despite the fire that burned 
beyond the expanse of carpet. She held the page before herself, absently struggling 
to resolve it.
	The words refused to coalesce into anything meaningful. Uncertainly, half 
aware that there was something curious about the letter, she turned it over in her 
hand. The faint scrawl seemed no more significant upside down. She brought her 
eye toward it. Somewhere behind her she felt Gwen's footsteps once again, heard 
her careful stride as the girl entered the room with a tray balanced on one hand.
	The letter made no sense because there was nothing written on it, she realized 
suddenly. The words before her were meaningless groups of characters. The 
handwriting had been deliberately crafted to be oblique and difficult to fathom. 
The electric was gone such that she'd be forced to find a window to read it. She 
felt her hands tighten about the page.
	A shadow touched the glass of the window, the brush of a lover's hand across 
unclothed flesh before it was gone. She parted her lips to speak, feeling the sudden 
hammer of blood in her ears, turning to cry out to Gwen. The shadow danced once 
more and vanished. She'd half turned, falling to her knees as the glass behind her 
exploded, the sound almost a physical blow as it assaulted her. A single pane of 
the window leapt from its confinement of decades, evolved into shards of light and 
sound and lunged for her. She heard a scream swell in the room like a rogue wave 
cast up from the beach, threatening to crush the house and carry them all back out 
to sea. She was uncertain whether it belong to Gwen or to herself.
	At the far end of the room Gwen dropped her tray, the coffee things clattering 
angrily to the floor. The sound seemed impotent compared to the eruption of the 
bullet that had destroyed the window beside her ear. It had been a bullet, she 
realized suddenly. It had taken her a long while to appreciate that. She flung 
herself unthinking to the uneven carpet before her, rolling behind a rather 
insubstantial Elizabethan chair.
	Impossibly, Gwen was still standing at the far end of the room, an expression 
of uncertainty creeping like daybreak across the stillness of the girl's features.
	"Get down, girl!" she shouted from behind the questionable fortification of the 
chair. Gwen's head turned with the mechanical lassitude of a toy, its spring nearly 
wound down. Her face seemed to melt, her eyes widening suddenly, traversing the 
distance between confusion and terror in the space of a heartbeat.
	"Get down!" she cried again. Gwen collapsed suddenly, staggering into the 
gloom behind a nearby sofa. The room reverberated into silence, to be punctuated 
a moment later by the quiet sobs of the girl in the darkness.
	Emma listened intently to the uncertain quiet of rain on the roof slates two 
floors above, the distant muttering of the ocean and Gwen crying. There was little 
point in commanding her to be still, she knew. Nothing else moved. There was no 
sound of footsteps outside the house, no clatter of wood in the distance as one of 
the outer doors was forced open. The disturbed blanket of timelessness that had 
sealed the room for months now seemed to drift back down from the soot and 
cobwebs of the high ceiling above her, reasserting itself as lord of this place.
	Hesitantly she got to her feet. Her muscles ached in their confinement, or in the 
taut expectation of another bullet. None came, and she ventured a step from 
behind her place of concealment.
	The shattered pane of the window glittered dispiritedly, the grayness of the day 
seeping into the house through the wound. The sound of the rain outside seemed 
rather more strident now. She became conscious of the rasp of her own breathing 
as she stood uncertainly.
	Where was something she might defend herself with, she wondered 
desperately. There were no guns in the rooms that Gwen had access to. That meant 
nothing on the first floor of the house, and only John Quick's guns on the second. 
Her key to the room where they were kept was with her pistol, also on the second 
floor. She cursed under her breath, thinking that if the owner of the gun that had 
shattered the window beside her was still about, he could have her dead eight 
times over before she found anything more dangerous than a length of wood.
	She thought of the knife against her thigh. John Quick had been amused by it 
when she'd first taken to wearing it, as much as he'd understood its value for her. 
"It isn't much of a defense against someone with a rifle unless you happen to be 
shot in your leg where the knife is," he'd observed. She'd explained that it wasn't 
men with rifles she'd been concerned with, she recalled. Perhaps she might have 
done well to have been.
	The room seemed immensely larger than she usually imagined it as she stepped 
quickly from behind her chair and crossed to where Gwen was hiding. The girl's 
sobs had become an even cadence, syncopated with the drone of the rain outside. 
She knelt beside the sofa, staring at the crumpled form before her.
	"Are you all right?" she asked at length.
	Gwen's face appeared suddenly from the dust and shadows. She seemed 
somehow all the more frightened that she'd been discovered, however poor her 
concealment might have been. She nodded wordlessly, the stains of tears across 
her face catching a faint clutter of daylight for a moment.
	"Can you stand?"
	Gwen stared at her for a moment. She struggled awkwardly to get her feet 
beneath her, rising slowly into the tepid light of the room. Her eyes cast anxiously 
over the furniture, regarding the ruined window for an instant before her attention 
was drawn to a widening pool of coffee soaking into the carpet before her, its 
surface dotted with shattered crockery.
	"I... I'm dreadfully sorry, ma'am," Gwen said hoarsely at length. "I can't say 
what I was thinking... I shall see to it immediately."
	She smiled uncertainly at the girl, her own features feeling taut and artificial. 
"It's nothing... the coffee things. Someone's fired a bullet through the window... 
perhaps it was hunters up in the hills. It's enough to make anyone drop what 
they're carrying."
	Gwen's eyes widened for a moment, and Emma wondered whether the girl had 
enough wits about herself to consider the likelihood of her transparent fabrication. 
She nodded and bent to retrieve what was left of the coffee service.
	Emma glanced at the ruined window once more. She'd been standing before it 
when the shot had been fired, and if someone had been aiming at her the bullet 
would have traveled the length of the room. She imagined the path it could have 
taken. She was a long while finding the perfect black circle where it had come to 
rest in the sofa Gwen had been hiding behind.
	She lifted the skirt of her dress and withdrew her knife. She was conscious of 
Gwen's eyes upon her. Clearly the girl hadn't known of the weapon. It was a 
rather savage-looking thing, she allowed. Wordlessly she slit the fabric of the sofa 
and felt about amidst the straw and springs for something its designers had not 
thought to include. She located the bullet easily.
	It hadn't been distorted badly on impact, but she knew that she would be some 
while identifying it. She sought about the room for a source of light by which to 
study it. The only window not steeped in the shade of trees outside the house was 
the one at the front, and she was reluctant to approach it. She became conscious of 
Gwen observing her.
	"Is... is that it, then?" Gwen asked quietly. She appeared to have mastered her 
tears.
	"I should say so," Emma replied absently, clutching her hand about the 
shapeless bit of lead. Whatever it was, she thought angrily, it was not the stray 
shell of a lost hunter. It was far too small to have come from a rifle.
	Emma became conscious of the tremulant silence of the room, of the sour 
aftertaste of fear in Gwen's voice.
	"I'll be upstairs," she said suddenly. "I'd be grateful if you'd ring Mister 
Barlow and have him see to the window and the electric, if he can. I'd prefer if 
you didn't say how the window came to be broken." Absently she lifted one of the 
antimacassars from an arm of the sofa and draped it across the back, covering the 
rip where she'd withdrawn the bullet. "Then perhaps you'd do well to have a bit of 
a lie down in your room. There's nothing that needs seeing to about the house."
	Gwen gathered the last remains of the coffee service onto her tray and righted 
herself. She smiled distantly, her eyes still glazed and wet with the promise of 
renewed tears. "Yes, ma'am," she said uncertainly. "Thank you, ma'am." She 
turned to leave the room and paused. "Would you not be wanting to speak to 
Mister Barlow yourself, ma'am?"
	She allowed herself to smile for a moment, touched by the note of conspiracy 
in Gwen's voice. "No," she replied quietly. It had been a pleasant conspiracy a 
fortnight earlier, she thought sourly, but at present she had other things to attend 
to. Gwen nodded and stepped quickly from the room.

• • •

She roused herself from the compacted spectator's universe of the microscope and 
glanced uncertainly about the room. John Quick's old desk didn't suit her and his 
ancient office chair seemed like something that might have been used to extract 
information from reluctant prisoners in some grim, unspoken-of past. Her back felt 
twisted into a shape that would be a long afternoon righting itself.
	Something had roused her from her contemplation, she realized. The room 
about her was arid and silent, steeped in book cases and file drawers, shelves of 
arcane secrets sealed behind glass. The electric had returned some while earlier, 
and she'd been grateful to be able to peer through the microscope without the use 
of a torch. Even with its lamps burning the room seemed carved from anthracite 
and the blackness of some long abandoned Welsh mine.
	A knock rattled the formidable oak door at the far side of the room, the sound 
muffled and distant as if it were the echo of someone else disturbing her, days 
earlier. As habit had taught her she glanced about the desk to ascertain that there 
was nothing visible which shouldn't be seen by the help before she called out to 
Gwen to enter.
	The girl pushed the door before her uncertainly. Prior to John Quick's death 
this had been one of the rooms which Gwen had been instructed not to bother 
tidying, an injunction which she'd clearly interpreted to mean that she was not to 
set foot in it. She glanced about it now with bemused curiosity, as if she was 
disappointed not to find it awash with hoarded treasure.
	Gwen seemed to have composed herself. There was a fresh coffee service 
poised on her hand, a souvenir of days when all such objects had returned to the 
kitchen unshattered. The pungent bite of coffee seemed to challenge the dust and 
mildew of the room for a moment before growing sullen and defeated.
	"Am I disturbing you, ma'am?" Gwen asked at length, clearly having decided 
that she'd perused the secret room for as long as politeness allowed.
	"No... not at all," Emma replied, suddenly grateful for the interruption. "I think 
we should talk... this is probably as good a time as any."
	Gwen regarded her warily as she lowered her tray to the desk. As if by an 
unspoken command she righted one of the overturned cups and filled it. Emma 
accepted it without comment, as John Quick would have done. She smiled 
fleetingly to herself. The coffee was black and lethal. She could distantly recall the 
days when she'd first come to live in this house, when drinking it thus had nearly 
made her ill.
	"Would it be... proper of me to ask what all this is?" Gwen inquired, disturbing 
her reverie. Her voice had regained its timbre, touched with the assertion that 
recent events had given her the right to ask. She gestured at the litter of open 
books and the peculiar instruments strewn across the desk.
	Emma regarded her for a moment. Yes, she thought at length, it would be quite 
proper.
	"This is a microscope for looking at bullets," she replied, thinking her tone 
somewhat pedagogical. She gestured at the focus of the instrument. "This is the 
bullet that I took from the sofa downstairs. Would you like to see it?"
	Gwen's face fell suddenly. "No, ma'am... ta."
	It isn't oozing with blood, girl, she thought, wondering if she might suggest it 
aloud. Gwen regarded an open book beside the microscope, her expression 
growing more concerned.
	"Might I ask why you're looking at... at that?" Gwen prompted her.
	"I'd like to know who it was that fired it," she replied absently, half returning 
her attention to the microscope.
	Gwen seemed to consider this for a time. "I've not been taught much of such 
things, ma'am... I didn't think that bullets were usually signed by their owners."
	She glanced up to find Gwen smiling faintly, a look of amusement suffusing 
the taut lines of her face. She removed the bullet from the pedestal of the 
microscope and held it between them. She'd stared at it long enough to know 
every scrape and gouge in its surface, magnified into a surreal gray landscape. It 
might yet serve an additional function, she allowed now.
	"This is a twenty-five caliber pistol bullet," she began softly. "It's come from a 
gun with a fairly short barrel." At least, she was fairly certain that it had done. 
John Quick had possessed an intuitive gift for understanding the ballistics of spent 
shells. He'd expended some considerable effort to impart it to her, such that she 
might better understand her own shooting. He'd understood the effects of muzzle 
velocity, cartridge loads and the other arcania of the craft. At best, she allowed, 
she could guess correctly reasonably often when she was confronted with the 
bullets she'd reloaded and fired.
	One of the books open beside her was a battered copy of Brigham and Dobbs' 
Forensic Bullet Identification. It was replete with nearly identical gray 
photographs of spent rounds, illustrating what she imagined were obvious 
differences to someone like John Quick. The difficulty in using it, she'd learned, 
was that her bullets never quite looked like the ones in the pictures, and she lacked 
the eye to appreciate the salient characteristics they might have shared.
	Wordlessly she pulled a copy of The NRA Guide to Firearms Assembly from 
beneath a stack of papers, one of the chosen few volumes that John Quick had kept 
on his desk. She flipped through it idly, its pages awash in drawings and 
photographs of various weapons in pieces, until she came upon the one she was 
looking for. She touched a picture of a Beretta 950B Jetfire pistol.
	"Is that what... what the hunters were using, then?" Gwen asked curiously.
	Emma heard herself sigh, thinking that there were things she'd said over the 
previous few hours that would want untangling in time. "Something like this one," 
she replied.
	"It looks rather nasty," Gwen remarked.
	She glanced again at the page. The gun was a brutish thing, singularly 
inelegant. John Quick would not have permitted such a weapon in his house.
	"It's a silly toy gun," she said at length. "The barrel is too short to make it 
accurate past a few yards. It uses bullets that couldn't do serious harm to a large 
mouse. It's for keeping in your pocket... it's easily hidden, but not of much use."
	Gwen regarded the page once again. Emma allowed herself a sip of her coffee, 
feeling it scuttle and writhe in her throat. "Begging your pardon, ma'am," Gwen 
began, this being another of her learned phrases for domestics, Emma decided. 
"How is it that you've come to know... about guns, and such?"
	"John Quick taught me," she replied evenly. "He was... quite knowledgeable 
about such things." She glanced about the room. There was an ancient metal 
visitor's chair in a far corner. She gestured to it. "Would you bring that over and 
sit for a moment?" she asked. "I'd like to have a word with you."
	Gwen's face seemed to become lifeless, her eyes black and unmoving. You've 
been expecting me to say that for some time now, Emma thought sourly. The girl 
turned to comply with her request. She returned a moment later with the chair and 
placed it before John Quick's desk.
	Emma lifted the spent bullet from the desk before her. It had been damaged 
surprisingly little by its flight. Fired from a gun with a relatively low muzzle 
velocity, it had come to rest in the soft stuffing of the sofa where she'd found it. 
John Quick had taught her to use rifles for the most part, and then the handgun 
he'd given her. Both had presented her with contorted, shapeless smudges of lead 
when she'd recovered her rounds.
	"This isn't the sort of a bullet hunters use," she began evenly. "Handguns are 
restricted in Britain. The man who fired this wanted to shoot me with it, but he 
missed."
	Gwen stared at the bullet in her hand, her eyes now huge and anxious. "I don't 
understand, ma'am," she whispered at length.
	"It's rather a long tale, and I can't be explaining it now. There's someone on 
Aberteyrnas who wants to kill me. He's not... not a professional killer, or he 
wouldn't have used this sort of gun. He'll know that he's not succeeded, though, 
and he'll have at it again. Even toy guns can be nasty if you get in the way of 
one."
	"But why..."
	Emma held up her hand, silencing Gwen's question. "It's a long tale," she 
repeated. "The thing of it is that I wouldn't want you to get in the way of one of 
these." She gestured at Gwen with the bullet. "I think you should consider... 
finding other employment."
	Gwen met her eyes for a moment and looked away, staring into the darkness at 
the far end of the room. "Does this mean I'm to have the sack, ma'am?" she asked, 
her voice suddenly icy.
	Emma regarded the desktop before her. She'd not particularly enjoyed hiring 
help, having to consign most of those who'd applied for the position to remain 
amongst the unemployed. It had not occurred to her at the time what it might be 
like having to dismiss someone. There was a measure of comfort in the dimension 
of a rifle scope, she considered, rather than the muted intimacy of staring at 
someone across the expanse of a desk.
	"I won't send you away if you don't want to leave," she heard herself say at 
length. Her voice had sounded hollow and defeated, words spoken by someone 
without any measure of courage, she thought angrily. "I think it would be best if 
you went... you could have a fortnight's holiday, if you like. It's a frightening 
thing to be without work... I know... but I fancy that being dead would be worse 
still."
	Clearly Gwen hadn't anticipated a reprieve, Emma allowed fleetingly. The girl 
stared at her mutely, her eyes suddenly alight with the possibility of a remission of 
the sentence she'd thought was to be hers since the death of John Quick.
	"I'd like to stay, ma'am," she said quickly.
	Emma heard herself sigh. "This isn't some brat from the village with a pellet 
gun, girl," she began, conscious of the bullet still in her hand between them.
	"I know, ma'am," Gwen said coldly. The girl's face suddenly erupted into a 
measured, wicked grin. "As you said, it's someone who wants to shoot you. There 
isn't any real danger to me, now is there?"
	She placed the bullet on the desk before her. "I've not fired a gun like this," 
she said, hearing the resignation in her own voice. "From what I understand, 
they're accurate to about ten feet on a calm day. John Quick said that the safest 
place to be when one goes off is right in front of it, as it's impossible to hit what 
you're shooting at." Gwen seemed to appreciate the idea, smiling uncertainly.
	Emma sighed and continued. "I have to go out for a time... I'd be grateful if 
you'd stay away from the windows and consider whether you want to remain in 
the house. It isn't a game, this, and I've had my fill of funerals."
	She dismissed Gwen and returned her attention to the bullet. John Quick would 
have told her that honor had been served, that she'd offered Gwen a dignified 
opportunity to leave. After several moments of staring at the bullet it occurred to 
her that she'd had the same opportunity, and she'd replied in much the same way. 
To return to the mainland and join the limitless, unmoving queues, seeking for 
work... would that be very much different from a decrepit, lingering death, she 
wondered blackly.
	She glanced angrily at the door that Gwen had closed behind her. She'd sat 
with John Quick in this room on occasion, for the most part when he'd wished to 
verbalize his thoughts as he'd devised ways of executing the jobs they'd 
performed. In an abstract sense this was much like the beginning of one of those 
discussions. She lacked the mental discipline to map out the undertaking as he 
would have done, but she had a sense of where she might begin. Wordlessly she 
rose from her chair and left the room, descending the narrow carpeted stairs and 
retrieving her umbrella from the spice jar by the door. The day had grown no less 
inclement, she decided as she stepped out into it, but the dank menace of the fog 
and the shadows about the house had certainly made it colder.

• • •

The village of Llannewydd consisted of a high street that fawned and tumbled 
before a parade of three-story stone houses, crushed together like coach passengers 
on a long-dreaded summer outing, painted with dreary pastel colors that seemed to 
merge with the grayness of the afternoon. Most of them had been converted to 
shops in ages past. Their upper floors serving as inexpensive flats for the tourists 
who arrived reluctantly to immerse themselves in the waters of the ocean when the 
weather was less foul. She'd come occasionally to sit about on the painted iron rail 
that separated the angled parking opposite the shops from the sand of the seaside, 
to watch the languid tide of people from the mainland, each of them etched with 
the resentment of a holiday that should have been in Spain or France, had there 
been sufficient money this season.
	Behind the street the raw anger of the island's rock strained like corded 
muscles, woven with strands of trees and a few convoluted roads that braved the 
grade. The hills were pocked with the homes of people who lived year-round on 
Aberteyrnas, their size and grandeur increasing with their altitude. The brow of the 
hill, from which the view to sea was singularly inspiring, was a rampart of modern 
dwellings. Many were the summer retreats of the descendants of the builders of 
John Quick's house, she imagined. Like the shops before her now, most were shut 
up for the winter.
	The air was thick with the cloying perfume of diesel oil and rust. The noise of 
the ships beyond the tourist beaches, so long obscured by the rumble of cars and 
the bawling of children whose ice creams had melted, coughed and chuckled from 
the fog now, as if in assertion that it had withstood the tourists like a sea wall, 
resolute now long after the ocean had gone down in defeat.
	It had been some while since a car had passed her, she reflected, regarding the 
street from beneath her umbrella. Absently she glanced once more at the shops, 
certain that the one she sought was among them. Remarkably, someone emerged 
from W. D. Evans, the newsagent. The sole other claimant to the street didn't look 
her way, turning his collar to the rain and beetling away down an alley.
	Barbara Owens' flower shop was at the far end of the high street, crushed 
between the NatWest bank branch and the shuttered facade of a restaurant she'd 
never considered eating in. As she crossed the deserted expanse of worn tarmac 
and cobbles to approach it, she wondered fleetingly if it might prove to be deserted 
as well. It seemed odd that in her ten years on Aberteyrnas she'd not found the 
onset of its winters so desolate until now.
	The glass door, encrusted with the symbols of various credit cards, yielded 
beneath her hand. She stepped uncertainly past it, into the cloister of a tiny room 
that immediately seethed at her with a tangle of scents.
	She stood for a moment, allowing her eyes to grow comfortable in the gloom. 
There seemed rather a lot of flowers, she considered, even for a shop that sold 
them. The majority of them were blue. They partially concealed numerous bits of 
rustic furniture that housed the sorts of things tourists brought back from the 
seaside.
	The nearest table beckoned to her. It was bedecked with variations on a 
common theme – red porcelain dragons, pot-bellied and grinning. They 
came in a variety of sizes and postures, ranging from an infant struggling 
from an egg shell to a huge, leering brute of a thing with a miniature lager 
can clasped awkwardly between its claws. Pinned to the wall behind the table 
was a small Welsh flag, bearing its prominent red silhouette of a dragon, 
should anyone fail to appreciate the significance of the artifacts.
	The door swung shut leisurely behind her. Somewhere in the darkness beyond 
the till at the far end of the shop a bell sounded faintly and was silent.
	Absently she picked up one of the dragons. Its bottom was stamped MADE IN 
WALES. It was in defense of the dragon and others of its kind, she considered. 
Several years earlier there had been a row in the local newspaper over the 
souvenirs of Wales sold on Aberteyrnas. Most had been imported from Singapore 
at the time.
	Beyond the gathering of dragons was a shelf of more conventional offerings 
for the tourists. She eyed a stack of ashtrays painted with seagulls and nautilus 
shells, plastic yachtsmans' caps and hastily carved miniature channel markers. The 
dull luster of a brass plaque caught her eye for a moment. It turned out to be a 
metal plate cut in the shape of the island, mounted on a bit of polished wood. She 
picked it up and regarded it. Inset into the island was a brief description of its 
origin.

Aberteyrnas, from the Welsh aber, for a confluence, or coming together, 
and teyrnas, for kingdom. Local legend has it that some time after the year 
500ad a number of Welsh princes met on the island to forge a truce 
between them. When they returned to the mainland they had chosen a king 
to lead them all, Maelgwn Gwynedd, the first king of Wales.

	She smiled at this. What little Welsh she could recall from high school had 
allowed her to appreciate the meanings of most of the place names she'd 
encountered when she and John Quick had ventured to the mainland. It had not 
occurred to her to wonder at the meaning of the name of the island, however. In 
reflection it was a rather odd one.
	"Will you be having that, then?" a voice asked from the far end of the shop. 
She felt herself start, unaware that anyone else had entered the room. Hastily she 
returned the plaque to its space on the shelf and turned to face the sound of the 
voice.
	It had been the voice of someone who might have taught high school Welsh, 
she imagined, wearing its accent like a heavy cologne. As she struggled to resolve 
the details of the figure before her she realized that she'd been addressed by the 
woman from the funeral earlier that day. Barbara Owen regarded her uncertainly, 
perhaps considering whether her presence required a smile.
	She was a rather more attractive woman when she wasn't in tears, Emma 
thought fleetingly, wondering if it was an unkind thing to consider. She stood 
behind her till now with the dignity of one of those old Welsh princes, a flicker of 
curiosity aglow in the ashen weariness of her eyes.
	"No, ta," Emma replied. "I was just... having a look around."
	The older woman nodded pleasantly and glanced away. With the tourists gone 
she'd probably seen no other customers that day, Emma allowed, and might be 
forgiven for seizing upon the one that graced her doorway.
	She glanced uncertainly about the shop, suddenly at a loss for how she might 
speak to the woman. The few steps to the till seemed impossibly long. "Actually," 
she began at length, "I've come to ask you something."
	Barbara Owen regarded her curiously. "Oh, aye?"
	"The thing of it is... I was John Quick's housekeeper..."
	She felt the woman's eyes upon her, as if she'd said something blasphemous 
within hearing of the local vicar.
	"I saw you at the service this morning, didn't I?" Barbara Owen asked softly. 
	"Aye."
	"Emma, is it?" she inquired. "John spoke of you... from time to time." She 
turned away suddenly. Emma saw her produce a handkerchief from somewhere 
and daub at her eyes for a moment.
	"I'm sorry... to've come here," Emma began. "I can see it's a bad time."
	Barbara Owen turned to face her once more, a forced smile across her face. 
"No, not at all... the truth of it is, I've thought I should like to meet you for some 
while. John wouldn't have it, though... he didn't think it was proper for me to be 
seen with him, up at his house. The tongues of Aberteyrnas have little mercy, he'd 
say." She sniffled quietly. "Perhaps it's right that we've met at last, we having 
something in common and all."
	Emma regarded her intently, feeling distantly uneasy. "In common?"
	"Yes, well, all this time with me sharing John Quick's bed and all this time 
everyone on Aberteyrnas thinking that you did."
	Emma felt herself start. The older woman smiled bleakly. "There, I've 
managed to say something thoughtless before we've even met."
	There had been moments over the previous week when she'd felt somehow 
betrayed by John Quick, however irrationally, as if he'd deserted her at a time 
when she'd most needed him. She fancied she heard a note of the same displaced 
anger in Barbara Owen's voice now. It seemed distantly unfair to the other 
woman. If she had anyone to blame, it would be the faceless god of the church 
cowering at the base of the hill behind the high street. She herself knew that there 
was someone more immediate responsible.
	She met the older woman's eyes for a moment. "It's good to know that he 
had... someone," she said. Barbara Owen returned her gaze for a moment before 
looking away.
	Emma glanced uncertainly about the shop. "I've had a letter from John Quick's 
solicitors," she began uncertainly, acutely conscious of the silence of the place. 
"There's a reading of his will a week Wednesday... I thought it was proper that 
you knew."
	Barbara Owen peered up at her, smiling faintly. "I should be very unhappy 
indeed if it was proper," she said.
	"I... don't understand."
	"There's nothing in John's will for me... or I shall be quite cross with him. The 
last thing of his I'll be having is his money." The other woman's eyes burned with 
something dark and angry for a moment before she returned her attention to the 
gloom of the shop.
	If circumstances permitted her to remain on Aberteyrnas past month's end, 
Emma thought fleetingly, it would be pleasing to spend an afternoon with Barbara 
Owen, to puzzle out the various John Quicks they'd collected between them. Did 
age and the illusion of respectability bring with it the convoluted relationships that 
such people seemed afflicted with, she wondered. None of her own lovers, such as 
they'd been, would have minded who she'd been seen with. It seemed unlikely 
that any of them would have been worth enough to warrant a will.
	She felt her eyes grow wet, annoyed at their proclivity for doing so against her 
will. She'd come here for a purpose, she reminded herself. She glanced about the 
shop, realizing that there was probably a way she might yet salvage it.
	"It's a very nice shop you've here," she said absently, hoping she sounded as if 
she'd meant to change the subject of their conversation. "I couldn't help noticing 
that most of the flowers were blue."
	Barbara Owen seemed to follow her gaze for a moment, as if she'd just been 
made aware of the fact herself. "It's for the hotel," she said evenly.
	"The hotel?"
	The older woman reached behind the till and withdrew a large card with the 
blue oval logo of the Ford Motor Company on it. The blue of the emblem was 
clearly that of the flowers. Emma considered it for a moment.
	"The Hare up top of the hill's all been hired by Ford people," Barbara Owen 
continued. "It's a convention... or some such. They ordered enough flowers to 
stuff the place. These are what were left over." She gestured toward the center of 
the room. "There were others, of course, other colors... I'm afraid they all went 
this morning..."
	Emma felt herself grow uncomfortable. There were a number of other things 
that she'd intended to ask John Quick's lady, she allowed, but this clearly was not 
the moment. She realized fleetingly that she'd happened upon a fairly useful scrap 
of information in what few words they'd exchanged. John Quick might well have 
been proud of her.
	She excused herself awkwardly. The older woman said little, perhaps not 
greatly distressed to see her gone. She herself had lived every day since John 
Quick's death surrounded by the effects of his life, by reflections of him. She was 
acutely aware of being an unwelcome reminder of Barbara Owen's departed 
companion. 
	As she stepped once more into the damp, numbing rain of the afternoon she let 
her awareness begin to trickle over the cobbles of her thoughts, ideas half 
submerged in the torrents that swept about her ankles when she stepped into the 
street.
	Finding the man who'd killed John Quick, and who now awaited her bullet, 
would be what John Quick had described on earlier occasions as an exercise in 
probability. While she could not know what he was up to, she might devise some 
reasonable suppositions. She'd sat in John Quick's office often enough while he'd 
expounded upon his own, and been distantly surprised to learn how often they 
turned out to be true. People were capable of being quite unpredictable, he'd said, 
but it was rare that they bothered to exercise the talent.
	She resumed her peregrination down the high street.
	The man she sought was on Aberteyrnas. She allowed that he had probably 
come to Aberteyrnas, rather than being a resident of the island. Clearly he hadn't 
left, as he'd been about to have a shot at her earlier that day. He was here on 
business, or on some pretext of business.
	John Quick had harbored scant love of automobile salesmen after the 
unfortunate experience of his pitiable Rolls Royce, but it seemed unlikely both 
that he'd seek to actually kill one or that any of the poorly tailored suits that she 
imagined milling about amidst the carpeted rooms and passages of the Hare and 
Hound hotel would conceal a Beretta. Her visit to Barbara Owen's shop had not 
been wholly without worth. There were two hotels on the island which had not 
closed for the season. She'd managed to eliminate one of them, and one at the end 
of a footsore climb up the hills behind the high street at that.
	The other, the Poacher's Pocket Inn, was at the far extreme of the high street, a 
gentle slope all of which was down hill.
	It was possible that he'd chosen to stay in one of the innumerable bed and 
breakfasts that cluttered the lanes of Llannewydd, but in reflection it was unlikely. 
People who stayed in small inns were remembered by their innkeepers. Despite 
the contrived quaintness of its name, the Poacher's Pocket was nothing like the 
Victorian public house of the same name which had been torn down to allow 
access to its car-park. A modern hotel, colorless and impersonal, it was the sort of 
place she would have stayed in had she come to the island to do something John 
Quick would have killed a man for.
	To be certain, it was the sort of hotel they'd favored when they'd traveled to 
kill other men.
	She allowed her speculation to proceed. The man she sought had come to 
Aberteyrnas to do business with someone – someone who hadn't appeared or who 
hadn't concluded their dealings as yet, as witnessed by the man's continued 
presence. There was bugger-all to do on Aberteyrnas for someone who was 
familiar with it, and decidedly less for a stranger. Whatever attractions the island 
afforded its visitors in the summer had long since been boarded up.
	In similar circumstances, finding herself in foreign cities awaiting the 
clockwork machinations of one of John Quick's schemes to complete itself, she'd 
usually taken herself off to a pub. Drinking alone amidst loud music and a lot of 
people was arguably less disheartening than sitting on the strange bedclothes of an 
hotel room watching satellite telly.
	She'd occasionally accused John Quick of leaving her to her own amusements 
on such occasions so he could go off and sample the whores of a different land. In 
reflection it seemed unlikely – he'd probably just fancied quieter pubs. It certainly 
didn't apply to the object of her interest at the moment either, she reasoned. Even 
at the height of summer, a prostitute on Aberteyrnas would have died of 
starvation.
	Whoever he was, he probably went to a pub near his hotel in the evening and 
waited for whatever he'd come to Aberteyrnas to do. She imagined the geography 
of the island. There were perhaps half a dozen pubs in the area around the 
Poacher's Pocket. At least one she could think of was frequented primarily by men 
who worked the docks. She'd strayed there once and had only just escaped with 
her clothing intact. It would not be the sort of place to attract casual visitors.
	She peered uncertainly into the darkening sky beyond the rim of her umbrella. 
The embittered afternoon was growing colder.
	She visited three of the pubs at the lower end of the high street without finding 
any trace of a stranger to the island. The fourth was a clattering ruin of a building 
almost at the periphery of the manicured estates of the Poacher's Pocket, a place 
she'd often come herself. She'd first encountered John Quick between its walls. 
The Red Lion claimed to be the oldest surviving public house on Aberteyrnas, an 
assertion that was supported by the condition of its fittings and timbers. As she 
eased herself through its main door, ignoring the protest of hinges long past the 
point of merely requiring oil, she was assaulted by the pungent bite of beer and 
stale crisps.
	The room was soundless save for her footsteps and the muted whisper of a 
television high in a far corner, its volume turned down almost to inaudibility. No 
one left on the island seemed to have been taken by the need for strong drink as 
yet. A pair of bandit machines flashed erratically beside her, distracting her for a 
moment with their blandishments of colossal winnings. The wealthiest of them 
was presently capable of paying out seven pounds fifty.
	The fellow behind the bar regarded her as she emerged from the gloom, tying 
her umbrella as she approached him. At length his face was tinged with 
recognition, an economical smile suffusing his features. He looked as old as the 
Lion itself, she thought fleetingly, his thin white hair reclining beside features 
poorly shaven, overfed and far too enamored of the pints he pulled.
	Dafydd behind the bar had no surname that she was aware of. In the years 
she'd been coming to the Lion she'd yet to ascertain whether he was an employee 
of the establishment or its owner. He seemed to know a single mood, something 
discarded in the void between melancholy and disillusionment.	
	"Good afternoon, miss," he said languidly as she approached the bar. His voice 
was like that of Barbara Owen, obese with the local accent.
	"Good afternoon, Dafydd," she replied. "Rather a wet one."
	"Aye," he observed, glancing mechanically at a window in the far wall of the 
building. He stared into the gray afternoon for a time before he returned his 
attention to her. "I should like to say how sorry I am about Mister Quick."
	She smiled bleakly at him for an instant. "Ta," she said. "It's kind of you."
	"I shall quite miss him."
	She considered this. "Did you know him, then?" she asked curiously. She 
allowed that she'd not given much thought to what John Quick had done with his 
time when he'd been on the island, but the Lion didn't seem like the sort of place 
that would have entertained him. 
	"Indeed I did, miss," he said. "In here now and again for the snooker." He 
gestured at a rather decrepit pool table in the far corner, clothed in a gown of 
fluorescent light from a fixture overhead.
	"I wasn't aware he played," she said quietly.
	"Oh, aye, quite a hand at it, he was. I'd many a game with him myself. None to 
beat him."
	She allowed herself to imagine him leaning across the table, willing the balls 
into its pockets. It seemed odd that she'd encountered two friends she hadn't 
known he'd had in the space of an afternoon. Perhaps it was odder still that she'd 
frequented the Lion herself for years and not encountered him here after first 
meeting him. It didn't seem beyond him to wish it thus.
	"And what will you be having, then, miss?" the barman asked, disturbing her 
reverie. He produced a half-pint glass from behind the bar.
	"Tetley's bitter," she replied absently. "A pint, please."
	He regarded her curiously for a moment as he grasped the handle of one of the 
pumps and drew it back. Women on Aberteyrnas were still expected to drink from 
half-pint glasses, she knew, and it pleased her to do otherwise. I could drink you 
under the table, she thought acridly.
	He pushed a glass toward her, its snail-track of foam stretching behind it. "One 
pound twenty-five," he said woodenly. She found two pound coins in her pocket 
and handed them to him, accepting her change.
	"Iechyd da," he said mechanically.
	She lifted her glass. "Iechyd da," she repeated, taking a long pull on it. Good 
health... a bit of Welsh for the tourists to learn. Had he said that to John Quick 
when he'd pulled him a pint, she wondered, suddenly angered by the thought. It 
would have done him scant good.
	She'd half drained the glass before she reminded herself of her reason for 
being in the pub. She'd had several pints earlier, and little enough to eat that day, 
she allowed. She might do well to keep her head.
	"I wonder if I could ask you something," she inquired at length.
	The old man allowed himself to be drawn from his rapt concentration of the 
television in the corner. "Aye," he agreed, making the reply seem like an 
indulgence for the memory of John Quick.
	"I've been left to see to John Quick's affairs," she began. She'd had three 
earlier performances during which to perfect her lines, and she'd worked out the 
nuances of the tale she was about to tell. "It's quite complicated, actually... you 
never quite know how things have been left..."
	"Aye," he agreed. "It was like that when my mum died a few years back. 
Couldn't find the key to her drinks cabinet for weeks."
	She smiled appreciatively. "There's a lot the solicitors will have to take care 
of... I think there's some unfinished business of his, though, with someone on 
Aberteyrnas."
	"What sort of business is that, miss?"
	"I don't actually know... that's the problem. He was supposed to meet 
someone, but I don't know who it was, or what it was about. I have a feeling the 
poor bastard's still on the island, waiting for John Quick to keep their 
appointment. It's the least I can do, to find him and let him know what's 
happened."
	The man rubbed his hand across an unshaven chin and appeared to consider the 
problem. "Have you any idea who you're after, miss?"
	"No... but he's from the mainland, and there can't be many left on the island 
now, with the summer gone. From what John Quick said I should think he's from 
the continent."
	The old man's face unraveled itself from the shapeless collar of his shirt by 
inches, his eyes suddenly alight. "I think I know who you mean," he said 
suddenly, clearly delighted with the idea.
	"Oh, aye?" she asked.
	"There's a bloke, been coming in here every night for the past two weeks or so. 
Dressed like one of those lot on the telly what reads the news... suit and a tie and 
such. German, I think... or one of the Euros, in any case." He paused for a 
moment, smiling as if to apologize for saying something out of turn. "Of course, 
we shall all be Euros pretty soon, shan't we..."
	She nodded, anxious for him to continue. "Is there anyone with him?"
	"No... you see, that's the odd bit," he replied. "He comes in every night, about 
when it gets dark. He drives up in a gray Vauxhall, comes in and sits over there in 
the corner." He gestured to a small table near the window at the far side of the 
room, away from the pool table and the bandit machines. "Comes in, he does, and 
orders a double of 'de goot ztuff' ." He managed the last three words with a 
passable impression of a German accent.
	"The good stuff?" she asked, as she imagined she was intended to.
	"Aye, well, it took me a few tries at first to figure what he was on about. It's 
the Glenfiddich he fancies," he said, gesturing to an upturned whiskey bottle in a 
jigger screwed to the wall behind the bar. "Ninety-five pee a glass, and he has 
bloody doubles. Twenty quid a night, most nights. Sits over there, watches out the 
window and drinks the good stuff."
	She glanced at the table, now vacant. "It must be him," she mused. "He's 
waiting to speak with John Quick." She took another swallow of ale and 
considered the room. The door shrieked behind her. She turned to see a middle 
aged man in badly fitting clothes followed by a plain woman, pregnant and 
walking awkwardly. He ushered the woman to the other extreme of the bar and 
gestured for attention.
	Emma took her glass and walked to the far end of the room. Iechyd da, she 
thought. She found thirty pence in the change from her drink and slid it into the 
mechanism of the pool table. A languid clatter of balls reverberated deep inside it 
as they rolled from their prison. She collected them from the opening at the far end 
of the table and racked them. Idly she found the cue ball and removed the triangle 
from the table. If no one else appeared to use the table she could amuse herself 
with it for hours. It would allow her to walk about, to view the room from a 
variety of angles without appearing to do so.
	She was fifteen minutes potting the first ball, which she decided was a 
reasonable pace.
	The pub gathered an untidy accretion of customers over the next few hours. A 
girl of about her own age arrived to serve drinks. Someone turned up the telly and 
then drowned it out with selections from the juke box. A gathering of housewives 
grew like drably-colored mushrooms about the bandit machines, pushing pound 
coins into them and hoping against hope that they could win back their rent 
money.
	She'd gotten through two more pints and several packets of wholly unpalatable 
crisps to soak them up before she noticed a gray Vauxhall appear in the car-park 
beyond the rain-streaked window of the pub. As its lights were extinguished she 
saw a blue and yellow Alamo emblem on its bumper. It had been hired at an 
airport, probably Manchester or Cardiff.
	The man who entered the pub a moment later couldn't have looked more like 
someone who didn't belong on Aberteyrnas if he'd been the Prince of Wales. His 
suit was dove-gray, clearly having been tailored by someone with no experience at 
all of mending nets or dungarees. His hair was black strewn with early gray, every 
strand of it in place. His shoes were Italian, worth more than anyone else in the 
room took home in a fortnight. He walked as if he imagined everyone around him 
to be a bit of trick photography, visible but wholly insubstantial. He ascended the 
table that Dafydd had said he would, and a moment later he beckoned for the girl 
who was bringing drinks.
	Emma glanced at the pool table before her. There were four balls left after 
uncounted games played by herself. There was also thirty pence beside one of the 
far pockets, put there a quarter of an hour earlier by two lads who smelled 
redolently of fish and were now eyeing her impatiently, awaiting their turn at the 
table. Her view of the man in the expensive clothes would be better from the bar in 
any case, she allowed, and even with the most skillfully inept playing at her 
disposal she wouldn't be able to spin the game out for much longer.
	With what felt like unseemly haste after her languid tenure at the table over the 
previous few hours she dropped the remaining balls and deposited her cue in an 
untidy pile of others in the corner.
	"About bloody time," one of the lads muttered as he passed her. She retrieved 
her glass from the edge of the table and walked idly into the room. The serving 
girl was bringing the man at the far table a large tumbler of whiskey. He seemed 
the only inanimate thing in the pub, neither milling about and speaking 
uproariously nor flashing lights and begging for a coin to be stuffed into some 
orifice or other. She thought of the sort of grainy black and white photographs that 
seemed to delight the editors of sunday newspaper supplements, in which the 
camera's shutter had been left open to blur all the pigeons of a Roman piazza, 
leaving only a weathered old man standing still among them in sharp resolve.
	He drained half the contents of his glass in a single swallow, his face like 
carved alabaster, untouched by the fire of his drink.	
	There was a telephone on the bar, she recalled as she moved with practiced 
disinterest through the crowd trolling for drinks. Somebody was shouting to his 
mate about football in her left ear, his breath thick with partially digested bangers 
and somewhat more recent ale. Dafydd seemed to be supporting himself on the 
bitter pump, sloughing back and forth as he struggled to keep a glass beneath the 
tap.
	She reached through a last phalanx of bodies and seized the telephone. 
Mechanically she dialed a number, a ten-pence piece poised at the coin slot. For a 
moment she imagined that the bit of blue and gray plastic was her own personal 
bandit machine, relying on her to supply it with flashing lights.
	The articulated murmur of the ringing tone clattered in the ear piece for several 
seconds before she heard the distant receiver being lifted. She pushed her ten 
pence into the box.
	"Hello, love," she said as loudly as she could without shouting. There was a 
moment's silence at the other end.
	"Is that you?" asked a sleepy male voice.
	She smiled to herself for a moment. The room was far too loud to risk saying 
anything clever. "Aye, it's me," she replied. "Would you fancy coming down to 
the Lion and buying me a drink?"
	"The Lion, you say?" the voice at the far end of the connection inquired in its 
toneless English accent.
	"Aye, the Lion," she shouted. She glanced at the counter on the telephone, 
which was meticulously decrementing itself, awaiting the moment when it might 
hold her conversation hostage for another ten pence. The pause at the far end of 
the line was suddenly becoming irritating.
	"Very well," he agreed. She could imagine him yawning, regarding the 
telephone for a moment.
	"Bring a few quid," she said quickly. "I'm quite skint." She replaced the 
receiver before he had the opportunity to protest.
	If being born on the mainland was a sin beyond redemption on Aberteyrnas, 
sleeping with one's gardener... one's English, Cambridge dropout, hitherto 
unemployed wastrel of a gardener at that... must surely be grounds for firing at the 
nearest stake. The English were tolerated in the summer if they kept their children 
leashed, but there were those on the island who would have considered what she 
submitted herself to in the tied cottage at the periphery of John Quick's estate 
indistinguishable from bestiality.
	Absently she waved to Dafydd behind the bar for a fresh pint. She wondered if 
she ought to feel guilty for her somewhat exaggerated description of her poverty 
as she slid another one pound twenty-five across the slick, foamy surface of the 
bar. 
	Teddy Barlow had come into John Quick's service several years earlier. It had 
been at the height of what she liked to think of as John Quick's ambition either to 
set himself up in the style of the Victorian gentry, with domestics oozing from 
every ill-fitting joint in the woodwork of his house, or to end the poverty of the 
nation as a whole by hiring on all its unemployed. Teddy Barlow hadn't even 
come in response to an advert, as Gwen had done. He'd befriended John Quick by 
mending his clapped-out Rolls where it had expired in a back alley of the village. 
Within the hour he'd talked himself into a salary and a place to stay.
	The curious part about him, Emma thought, was that John Quick had never 
seemed to like him. Teddy Barlow had been banished to the tied cottage long 
before his handiwork with the Rolls had come unstuck. Much of his first summer 
on Aberteyrnas had been spent mending his own roof and unplugging his 
plumbing. The cottage was rather appealing now, although at about half the size of 
John Quick's sitting room it seemed far more suited to a night of lovemaking than 
a year-round dwelling.
	John Quick had taken considerable pains to pretend not to know of her trysts 
with his gardener. She smiled at this now. He'd been fond of admonishing her for 
spending the night in various caravans with lads that the tide of sightseers and 
vacationing mainlanders scattered along the beaches of Aberteyrnas each summer. 
Perhaps it had been as much to see if he could rouse her outrage as out of any 
sense of erstwhile morality, she allowed. His coarse remarks about what she did 
with her evenings had ceased when Teddy Barlow had taken up residence in the 
old cottage. It seemed an odd thing – his comments about the 'weedy little English 
pillock' that lived in his garden had been one of the few subjects of small talk he'd 
seemed willing to permit himself.
	Gwen had taken equal pains to suggest that she knew everything that went on 
in the tied cottage, which in reflection she probably did. 
	Emma glanced surreptitiously at the man in the impeccable gray suit, 
reassuring herself that not even his facial muscles seemed to have moved 
perceptibly.
	There had been evenings, as she'd lain spent on her half of the cramped ruin of 
a bed they'd shared, when she'd wondered whether she fancied Teddy Barlow for 
his convenience, rather than out of any attraction she felt for him. He was an 
agreeable enough lad, she'd long since decided, and he was capable of being quite 
endearing when the mood struck him. He had a requisite photograph of her on his 
bureau, directly beside an antique shaving brush he'd long since replaced with an 
aerosol can and his school tie, which he never wore. It was hard to imagine him in 
anything other than the rumpled, ill-fitting clothes he habitually shambled about 
the grounds in. At times she found it uncomfortable thinking of him out of them.
	He was just over half an hour appearing in the poorly defined gloom of the 
pub. Clearly it had chosen to resume raining during his journey. She smiled 
uncertainly at him, his face streaked with tendrils of his hair. He looked distantly 
uncomfortable, which was as close to being genuinely angry as she could recall 
him getting. As if he were conscious of the accident of his birth which made him a 
foreigner in this corner of the empire, he pushed his way uneasily through the 
crowd toward her, staring at her as if to be certain not to meet the eyes of anyone 
else.
	"Have I gotten you out in the middle of a storm?" she asked, forcing herself to 
sound more sympathetic than she felt. Rain was more of a geological formation 
than a bit of transitory weather on Aberteyrnas, and she'd long since come to 
appreciate that most of the local people ignored it with good reason.
	"It began not two minutes after I set foot out the door," he said, his voice 
plaintive. He glared at the far window of the pub, as if he imagined that the storm 
had spent the day conspiring against him personally, and had finally succeeded in 
venting its lack of civility upon him.
	She pulled herself to him and kissed him, letting the rainwater from his hair 
trickle across her face. She imagined it tracing rivulets through the dust and smoke 
of her evening spent in the confines of the pub. She was distantly uncomfortable 
with the thought it might somehow be more sensual than their kiss was.
	He bought her half a pint of ale, addressing Dafydd as 'bartender,' which 
Emma recalled incensed him. He paid for it with a five pound note that would 
have come from his last wage packet. As she watched him proffer the note and 
accept his change it occurred to her that in another few days she'd be expected 
either to find the money to pay him or to give him his notice. She felt her heart 
thunder for a moment as she envisioned doing so.
	There was a pointed distinction between bidding a lover farewell and making 
one redundant.
	In the corner of her eye she saw the man in the gray suit rise from his table. He 
glanced once around the room, as if to assure himself that no one was taking 
notice of him, and he strode through the crowd to the door. For a moment she 
considered excusing herself to find the loo, to see which direction his headlights 
vanished into, but it seemed pointless. There was only one place he could be 
staying.
	Teddy Barlow didn't offer her a second drink, and at length she decided that 
she wouldn't press him for one. That might well have been his final five pounds, 
for all she knew. As if in a responsibility conferred upon him by some ancient oath 
sworn in blood at midnight, he long ago seemed to have accepted that he was 
expected to divest himself of a respectable portion of his earnings on her behalf. 
To his credit, she allowed, he'd not complained of it. Perhaps she'd do well to 
consider that now, knowing better than he that his finances were about to turn for 
the worse.
	After several more minutes of considering how much she'd enjoy one last pint 
that she wasn't destined to order, she allowed him to walk her to the door. She 
collected her umbrella, which threatened to be a miserable disappointment as soon 
as they'd stepped into the night. The gloom and limpid rain of the afternoon had 
grown malevolent. A freshening gale had crawled in from the Atlantic, and after a 
few moments she furled it and relented to the storm.
	"Damn," he cried. "Shall I call a taxi?"
	She smiled at him, feeling the rain begin to soak her clothes. There were 
perhaps three taxis on all of Aberteyrnas. In the unlikely event that any of their 
drivers were awake at this hour, they'd be in considerable demand. She tasted the 
darkness of the storm, thinking it far more intoxicating than the beer she'd enjoyed 
throughout the evening, and she stepped wordlessly forward.
	"Bloody women..." she heard him mutter as he stepped away from the lee of 
the pub to follow her.
	There was little warmth to be had in clinging to him as they walked, she 
considered, although the sensation was pleasing. At other times, had the storm not 
been quite so boorish, they might have returned along the beach to John Quick's 
estates. As it was they climbed laboriously along the broad expanse of the high 
street, past the darkened shops and the curtained windows of the flats above them, 
a few pulsing with the electric-blue light of television sets. Beyond them were the 
tourist cottages, abandoned now, and then the serpentine road that lay, tongue-like, 
to the north of Llannewydd. A single car passed them, an old three-wheeler 
tottering off into the darkness. It wasn't even worth trying to cage a ride from.
	The evening became featureless beyond the blue-white mercury lamps of the 
village. The rain seemed to grow more virulent still, scouring all color and detail 
from the land about them. At length she contented herself with watching the road a 
few feet before them. Teddy Barlow said nothing, his arm set determinedly about 
her, clearly to protect her from something. He seemed to have accepted that it 
would not be within his purview to protect her from the rain.
	She'd almost succeeded in convincing herself that the road had somehow 
elongated into infinity, and that they'd still be walking it by morning, when the 
ruined gateposts of John Quick's drive staggered uneasily into view. She glanced 
up at the house, seeing no lights in the distance. Gwen had probably retired with 
her television or her endless library of trashy novels. Smiling, she allowed herself 
to be led toward the seaward edge of the grounds, to where Teddy Barlow's scrap 
of a cottage leered at them both, unseen amidst the hedges and oaks.
	She felt his arm release her and she heard his muted cursing as he fumbled 
with his latch key in the darkness. He seemed to have been afflicted with rather a 
lot of keys, to his cottage, to the tool shed, to the various doors of John Quick's 
house. He was while finding one that fit the tarnished lock in the blackened door 
before them. He pushed it open, swinging it into something blacker still.
	Even before he switched on the single light that illuminated the principal room 
of the cottage she sensed its walls about her, like the walls of a monastic cell 
visited years after all the monks had moved on to better quarters. She felt herself 
crouch instinctively, the cracked, sooty beams of the ceiling threatening her a few 
inches above her head. He'd remarked once that the ceiling had probably been 
lower still years earlier, save that the slates of the floor were so badly worn as to 
have added an inch or so to it in places.
	Illumination, such as it was, did little to improve the atmosphere of the cottage. 
She moved to shield her eyes and then thought better of it, the single yellowed 
bulb across the room scarcely seeming worth the effort. The room was littered 
with unwashed clothes, ancient newspapers, magazines about cars that he 
occasionally mentioned he'd very much like to own one day. He'd not been 
expecting her this evening, she realized, as he usually sought to make the place 
look respectable within the limits of its decrepitude when he knew she'd visit it.
	"My word, the electric's on," he said with feigned astonishment. She felt his 
step behind her. "Dreadfully sorry about the state of things, love."
	She turned to face him, kissing him, suddenly content to allow the moment of 
their deliverance from the storm to languish for a time. The contours of his body 
felt unusual through two layers of sodden clothing. She let her hands slip across 
the back of his shirt, hearing the distant laughter of rainwater on the floor.
	When she finally allowed herself to open her eyes she realized that he was still 
glancing uncertainly past her at the sloth of his lodgings. She smiled at him, 
waiting until she'd succeeded in distracting him. "It's all right, lad," she 
whispered. "If I didn't have Gwen to pick up after me I'm quite certain my 
bedroom would look a right state too."
	She stepped into the room. His bed was before her, teasing her with the veiled, 
unspoken memory of the previous occasion of her sharing it with him. She glanced 
at it, unmade and piled high with the detritus of his existence here. Beyond it was 
a closet of a kitchen and an equally claustrophobic bathroom. The latter betrayed 
the age of the cottage more than most of its appointments, with a stone bathtub and 
the remains of a copper boiler that had once been used to heat the water that filled 
it.
	Somewhere in the coal-gray eternity between Llannewydd and here she'd 
begun to submit herself to the blandishments of the bitter ale she'd consumed that 
evening. It had all seemed to conspire against her reason. She stepped uncertainly 
into the room, feeling her feet catch on a pile of unattended laundry. Absently, her 
hands found the first button of her dress.
	"Would you like to help me out of my wet things?" she asked.
	She heard his footsteps behind her, perhaps more certain than her own, she 
allowed, as he would know where all the clothes had been scattered. His hands 
touched her shoulders, uncertainly at first, and slipped down the front of her dress. 
She heard herself gasp as they moved across her breasts, holding her for a 
moment. The room swam in a tide pool of rainwater and drink.
	She'd not been with him since before John Quick had died, she thought 
suddenly. She turned to face him, clinging to him for a moment before she stepped 
back and allowed him to master the buttons of her dress. He seemed to be having a 
time of it, struggling with the soaked cloth. He'd never have managed it with her 
facing away from him, she considered.
	He was practically on his knees before her, struggling determinedly with the 
final button. She grasped the dress with numbed fingers, peeling it from herself 
like an old, rotted skin. She imagined herself to be somehow reborn beneath it. 
She let it drop into a puddle of cloth at her feet.
	She felt him kiss her belly, his hands upon her legs, sliding over her backside.
	"It's a very fetching outfit you've on, love," he offered, getting uncertainly to 
his feet. She decided that she'd see if she could manage the buttons of his shirt.
	"Which would that be?" she asked, laughing.
	"Knickers and a knife," he replied, running his hand down her side so it 
impacted with the leather of the sheath strapped to her thigh.
	"It's very fashionable this year," she whispered. She was unaccountably 
pleased with herself that she'd clearly had more to drink than he and she was still 
managing to unfasten his buttons far more adeptly than he'd done hers.
	The knife had interested him from the first night they'd slept together. It had 
occurred to her once that he regarded her as being rather savage, living on this 
scrap of rock thrust out into the sea. The knife was an aspect of her savagery for 
him, something not of his world. His strategies for removing it from her leg had 
become an aspect of their lovemaking.
	She unfastened his shirt and pulled it from him. The sensation of her breasts 
struggling against the flesh of his chest was distantly painful, a taste like an exotic 
drink John Quick might have brought back from a job she'd not been permitted to 
accompany him on. 
	She felt his arms about her shoulders, clutching her to him. His lips found hers, 
forcing them apart. She felt his tongue upon hers, a black, wet serpent seeking 
entrance to her, threatening to consume her.
	Her hands clutched at the hard, corded muscles of his back, unaccountably 
outraged when they encountered the waist of his trousers. It seemed bitterly unfair 
that lads invariably had more clothes to remove. His breath burned in her throat.
	He seemed to be struggling with her knickers. It was something which had 
long confounded him, she knew, uncertain why it should be. The knife probably 
didn't help. She relinquished her attentions from his trouser button and slipped her 
knickers over the knife sheath, kicking them into the darkness behind her.
	His eye found hers for an instant. She smiled uncertainly at him. "Years of 
practice, that," she whispered.
	She heard herself scream as the coarse slate floor suddenly tumbled away from 
her, the room whirling for an instant as he gathered her into his arms and crossed 
the handful of steps to the bed. He dropped her into the maelstrom of untidy sheets 
and the scattering of discarded magazines. She regarded him as he unfastened his 
belt, sloughing what remained of his sodden clothes to the floor, and crossed the 
room to extinguish the light.
	His form was wrought more of imagination and desire than of flesh as he 
returned to the bed. She saw ruined blocks of shadow which might have been his 
once, bits of coal sculptures bought by the summer tourists and abandoned in their 
cottages when their holidays had ended. The bedclothes seemed to flutter like 
angered ravens as he slipped beneath them, his hands seeking for her. She had no 
sense of where he was until she felt his lips upon her nipple, his fingers moving 
like unnameable creatures across her belly.
	She cried out, the sound raw and distorted as it clawed at her throat. There had 
been a time, a year earlier, when she'd felt somehow ill-mannered for her behavior 
in his bed. She'd imagined that the women of his upbringing had been removed 
from shouting and writhing and clawing at the backs of their lovers. The tiny room 
suddenly tasted of the storm and of her own sweat, and she listened to the muted 
echoes of her cries between its walls. The sound was darkly satisfying, and she 
allowed herself to shout once more.
	He abandoned her breasts. She felt his fingers between her thighs, tearing at 
her, easing her legs apart. He deserved a moment's resistance, she decided 
fleetingly, before she relented to him. His breath upon her was searing, wet and 
cindery. He forced her legs further apart, his tongue suddenly within her.
	The fire of his breath ignited what few scraps of her reason remained. The 
blackness of the ceiling above her was suddenly alight with spectral tendrils of 
colors she'd never seen in daylight. The wetness of his tongue seemed to flow into 
her own wetness, fusing them into a single creature for an instant. She crushed her 
eyes closed but the colors of the room remained.
	She felt him withdraw from her, felt his hands upon her once more. Wordlessly 
he turned her over, lifting her backside into the air. Without thinking she reached 
into the blackness before her, finding the cold metal rails at the head of the bed.
	His hands seemed to explore her for a moment, as if he sought to assure 
himself that she was still the woman he'd thrown onto his bed earlier. She heard 
herself gasp as his finger entered her.
	He seemed to have fancied her this way frequently of late, she allowed, feeling 
his finger vanish once more. Perhaps it was another layer of civility peeled from 
them, a further expression of the sweet, unspoken vulgarity of their lovemaking. In 
a moment, she thought desperately, clutching at the metal bars before her, in a 
moment...
	She screamed as he entered her, the pain of him inside her suddenly beyond 
her to contain. The impact of him against the backs of her thighs threatened to 
dislodge her fists from the bed rails. His hands moved across her back, suddenly 
encircling her, finding her breasts. She twisted her head, staring behind herself 
into the blackness where she knew he must be. She had a momentary vision of 
him, silhouetted in the faint glow from the room's single window before the 
tangled net of her hair obscured her sight. The smell of the rain in her hair cloyed 
in her throat. She became conscious of the rasp of her own breathing over the 
angry protests of the bed.
	She struggled feebly in his grasp, her fingers bloodless as they clung to the 
steel before her. He was a creature within her, a thing of teeth and claws ripping 
her apart, consuming her. She imagined his blood flowing within her veins, the 
flesh between them somehow dissolved. An ember of madness glowed in the 
blackness between her legs, swelling into painful incandescence, growing 
unbearable. Her cries had become a single, luminous sound in the silence of the 
cottage.
	A scream welled inside her. At the moment of her climax it seemed suddenly 
to tear itself from her, an awful, monstrous birth. She felt herself convulse, 
imprisoned by the press of him behind her, his hands pulling her to him. The 
madness within her seemed brighter than midday, charring her flesh to ash, until 
all that remained of them both were the reverberations of her scream slowly fading 
into silence amidst the scarred, ruined walls of the cottage.
	Her eyes grew wet. There had been an evening once, months earlier, when he'd 
brought her back to his bed and loved her and had found her crying afterward. 
She'd been unable to account for her tears as she'd clung to him. She resolved not 
to be asked for a similar explanation on this evening.
	The pain of him withdrawing from her seemed distant, the uncertain 
recollection of something she'd experienced once. The bed swelled before her, 
rushing to meet her as her legs finally collapsed. Her muscles suddenly shrieked 
with pain, startling her. She'd thought herself beyond feeling anything.
	The drink she'd consumed earlier seemed to have fled her senses. She felt him 
struggle with the bedclothes, covering her and then finding his way beside her. 
Every rustle of the sheets, the inaudible sigh of his breath, the hairs of his arm as 
he pulled her to him, all seemed acutely detailed now. The day was a crumpled 
photograph in her thoughts, its features lost in the storm.
	She pulled herself more tightly to him, feeling strangely alight, the scent of her 
own sweat and his like the dank rot of a forest. It seemed to dominate the 
Victorian dust and dry wood of the cottage.
	She was uncertain how long it was before he spoke. She'd found a comfortable 
position in the crook of his arm, listening attentively to the gradually diminishing 
thunder of his heart and the distant pulse of waves clawing at the rocks of 
Aberteyrnas.
	"Are you awake, love?" he whispered.
	"No," she replied. She wondered for a moment if he'd believed her, as he said 
nothing else.
	"Could we go again?" she asked. He muttered something unintelligible and she 
decided that she'd deny him his sleep for as long as the darkness lasted.

Own a printed, bound copy of this book. 

You can order on line at http://www.StevenWilliamRimmer.com – click on SHOP – or 
call our toll-free order desk at 1-800-263-1138. 




3


Wednesday, September 11, 1985
Aberteyrnas

There was something rather alluring about a woman poised with a bow held taut 
across her chest, he thought absently. He watched the girl struggle with it for an 
instant, sighting down the meadow before her at the perforated remains of a 
cardboard box staked like a tethered goat thirty yards away. He was still regarding 
her, wondering that someone as slight as she could wield the bow, when she 
released it. The arrow vanished silently into the nothingness of the gray Welsh 
afternoon, reappearing an instant later with its fellows in the blistered surface of 
the box.
	"That's twelve," he announced evenly, holding up an empty quiver.
	"It's better than the last lot," she said, the whisper of something like pride in 
her voice. "I shan't have to go searching through the grass for any of these."
	He nodded, glancing away from her so she wouldn't see him smiling. "You've 
hit the box well enough," he said. "You'll have to do better than that when it isn't 
a box you're shooting at, girl."
	He saw her glare at him for an instant in the corner of his eye, her features 
clouding with a dark, suppressed rage she seemed to reserve for moments like 
these, for times when she was drenched in sweat and nearly spent. She'd fired and 
retrieved the dozen arrows five or six times this afternoon, and her arms would 
feel like molten lead by now. He knew that her cracked ribs were still tormenting 
her, although she'd refused to speak of them when he'd proposed that they come 
into the hills to shoot. Then there was that other minor injury, he allowed, 
reproaching himself for being amused by her discomfort.
	On her first attempt with the bow she'd held it as he'd instructed her, but he'd 
not considered that it would be a woman firing it. The bow string had caught her 
breast when she'd released it, a nylon cable suddenly snapped taut by seventy-five 
pounds of sprung glass and carbon fiber. She'd proven to know a number of very 
exotic curses as she'd clutched at herself, struggling not to drop the bow.
	"Look what you've bloody well done to me this time, John Quick," she'd 
shouted, pulling the front of her dress down. Clearly she'd not been concerned 
with what of her he saw at that moment. He'd agreed that she'd had an impressive 
bruise where the string had assaulted her. He'd suggested that she might have had 
the sense to wear a bra and had nearly been the recipient of her next arrow for his 
troubles.
	The bruise had affected her shooting for some while as she'd tried to hold the 
bow well away from herself. He allowed now that it had delayed her ultimate 
proficiency with the weapon, but she'd come to master it none the less. He'd 
wondered, when he'd first presented her with the bow and its arrows, whether 
she'd find in it the same communion she experienced with a rifle.
 	"It's a bow," she cried angrily now. "It isn't a bloody gun. Would you like to 
have a go, then?" She shook the bow at him. Despite her exertions of the afternoon 
her arm didn't waver, he noticed.
	She'd yet to learn to correctly allow for the wind. She treated the bow as she'd 
learned to manage a rifle. The arrows were slower and heavier than a bullet and 
had vastly more surface for the breezes that swirled across the meadow to perturb. 
It was something he'd chosen not to mention to her, certain that she'd find the 
measure of the new weapon in time.
	He glanced down the meadow again. Years earlier, when he'd first thought of 
using a hunter's bow for a job, it had taken him weeks of practice to get half his 
arrows on the target. She'd potted them all after an afternoon's shooting. If he'd 
been of a mind to suspect conspiracies, he thought archly, he'd have said that she 
was a mole planted in his household to convince him he was past it.
	Wordlessly he accepted the bow from her. For a moment he longed to tell her 
of her accomplishment with it. He glanced at her, seeing the darkness in her eyes 
as the wind scattered her hair across her face. Anger was a drug for her, he 
thought. It put steel in her arms and the lightning of some half-remembered local 
god in her eye. He regretted that at this instant he required her anger.
	There were three arrows in a mechanical quiver bolted to the side of the bow. 
By unspoken agreement none of them had been fired that day. They were hunter's 
arrows, painted in camouflage colors, and she'd clearly appreciated that they'd be 
all but impossible to find in the grass beyond the box if she missed the target. He 
withdrew one now and nocked it to the bow.
	If there were any of those half-remembered local gods dancing unclad in the 
hills above them at the moment, he considered fleetingly, feeling an ember of pain 
across his back and shoulders as he drew the bow, he would be most frightfully 
grateful for their indulgence on this particular occasion. The cams that guided the 
bow strings tipped over at the ends of their travels, granting him an instant's 
respite as he sought in the distance for the box.
	He was a moment sighting the bow, having gone several months without 
picking it up. The difference between you and I, he thought uncertainly at the girl, 
is that somewhere amidst the coal miners and clerks you claim as ancestors there 
was a Welsh bowman who killed the king's deer or slaughtered Frenchmen at 
Agincourt. I'm quite certain that all my great-grandfathers worked for the 
government, and theirs' before them.
	He loosed three arrows in succession, not pausing to allow himself to 
appreciate the flight of each as it swept over the undulations of grass and weeds, 
seeking for the center of the box. He bested all but two of her shots, the yellow 
and green flights of the arrows quivering like exotic insects amidst the carnival of 
red and black of the arrows she'd used. Wordlessly he returned the bow to her.
	She said nothing, staring at him for an instant, and then at the bow in her hand 
as if it had betrayed her. She regarded him for a time and he fancied that she was 
about to curtsy and tug at her forelock, as his new housekeeper was wont to do 
when she'd served the coffee. Her eyes blazed for a moment, her jaw set in a 
determination not to speak. He imagined her wrestling with a maniacal, demonic 
creature which had suddenly torn itself from her belly, drenching her in her own 
blood until she crushed it and drove it back within herself.
	At length she snatched the empty quiver from the grass at her feet, handed him 
the bow and strode into the meadow to retrieve her arrows from their target.
	The job involved two men. He'd refused to tell her why they would die, and 
she'd seemed comfortable not knowing. It was a curious thing, he allowed, that 
she'd accepted the necessity of killing much more readily than the knowledge of 
why it was necessary. The man he'd been hired to dispatch had a bodyguard, an 
increasingly common affectation in a world thick with terrorists and cutthroats of 
various species. The bodyguard would die with an arrow between his eyes. An 
instant later he himself would put a knife through the heart of the man being 
guarded.
	He watched her stride through the knee-high grass of the meadow. Her side 
was clearly growing painful. He'd suggest they retire for the day when she 
returned with the arrows, he decided, but he was quite certain she would refuse. 
There was a storm clawing at the flanks of Aberteyrnas, threatening the uncertain 
repose of the hillside. It might drive her back to the house – the demands of her 
flesh certainly would not.
	In another week, girl, you'll not be concerned about the prospect of putting an 
arrow into a space the size of a fifty-pence piece, he thought, distracted by the 
remembered image of her drawing the bow. Not for the first time he wondered at 
the child he'd fathered when first he'd handed her a rifle a few years earlier. The 
prospect of her hurling it into the grass, as if it had been something reptilian and 
untouchable, seemed somehow less disturbing now than the camaraderie she'd 
developed for the instruments of her adopted profession.
	A woman your age should be thinking about getting pregnant and married, he 
considered as she began wresting the arrows from the ruin of the box. She was a 
tiny figure now, a detail in a drawing from a childhood he'd not known, but only 
read about.
	I should have a daughter about your age...




Tuesday, October 6, 1992
Aberteyrnas

She moved her hand uncertainly beneath the bedclothes, unwilling to open her 
eyes. The morning had come to her in dissolute fragments. Weary, tepid daylight 
had teased at her through the opaque window of the cottage, and the occasional 
distant splash of water had confused her for a time. At length she'd realized that he 
was no longer in the bed beside her, and he'd had risen to have a bath.
	The English were so fastidious, she thought, smiling to herself.
	She moved one leg tentatively, judging the sharp ache that it responded with. 
You had rather a good time last night, girl, she thought wryly. The previous day 
had certainly ended better than it had begun.
	There was a moment in every morning after which one could no longer remain 
in bed with one's eyes closed, she decided, thinking that the notion seemed very 
English indeed. On Aberteyrnas it was quite permissible to lay about in bed for 
most of the day if one could get away with it. She opened one eye, and after a 
moment to allow the blackened, cobwebbed beams of the ceiling above her to 
swim into focus, she opened the other.
	Teddy Barlow's cottage was decidedly more attractive when it was too dark to 
see it clearly. It also seemed a great deal less confining at night. Its walls loomed 
scant inches from the bed, and its ceiling pressed down upon her. The air was 
damp with steam from the bathroom. A tendril of something else teased at her 
senses, and at length she realized that he'd started some coffee in what served him 
for a kitchen. The inside of her mouth felt like a meadow after too many sheep had 
been through it.
	She had a character which in other circumstances might have led her to 
gluttony, she considered. She was incapable of simply having it off with a lad and 
going to sleep. Their nights together were typically passionate ordeals of sweat 
and endurance.
	Ignoring the protest of her legs, she struggled to sit at the edge of the bed, and 
from there to get to her feet. The stone of the floor was almost painfully cold. The 
morning's dampness seemed suddenly to take an interest in her, like a cloud of 
enraged bees settling itself about her. She quickly located her clothes, although her 
knickers proved to be elusive. She distantly recalled kicking them away the night 
before. At length she decided that they could remain in hiding.
	A trio of ripped condom packets littered the floor on his side of the bed. She 
smiled wickedly when she noticed them. Had he taken her three times the previous 
night, she wondered. The protests of her legs suggested that he probably had. She 
found the thought darkly amusing – beyond being the first lad of her experience to 
do more than use her for a quick screw and roll over, he was the first one who'd 
been prepared to wear johnnies without an argument, or in fact, without even 
being asked to.
	She was wont to ascribe most of the peculiarities of his character to English 
public schools. Perhaps it was rather unkind of her to do so. She'd slept with a few 
louts in her earlier years on Aberteyrnas who'd had Etonian accents and been right 
bastards none the less.
	"Good morning," she called to the steaming doorway of the bathroom. She 
stared for a moment, absently curious, at the source of the muted splashing. The 
room beyond the door was wholly obscured in mist. He'd succeeded once in 
convincing her to join him in his morning ablutions, the ancient stone bathtub 
clearly being large enough for two. She'd managed to get her feet into the boiling 
cauldron of his bath water, but when her unprotected backside had touched it she'd 
been able to stand the pain no longer. She'd fled back into the bedroom chased by 
his laughter. It was inconceivable to her that anyone could subject themselves to 
that torment every morning.
 	"Good morning, love," he replied. "There's coffee on."
	"Aye," she said. "Ta... I can smell it."
	"I think the water's gone rather cold in here, if you fancy joining me."
	"Sod off," she whispered under her breath.
	The kitchen was no less untidy than the bedroom had been, although there was 
evidence that he'd done the washing up sometime within living memory. There 
was a single lightbulb dangling from a frayed cord in its center, which proved not 
to be working. The side, the cupboards and the clapped-out cooker in the far 
corner were all woolen with dust and splatters of the take-away meals that seemed 
to sustain him. If she'd been of a more domestic nature, she thought archly, she'd 
offer to put it to rights for him.
	The notion was blackly amusing. John Quick had hired her as a domestic, at 
least at first. When he'd come to fully appreciate her talents in the kitchen he'd 
instructed her to hire Gwen.
	A gleaming white plastic coffee maker rested atop the cooker, seemingly the 
only thing in the room that didn't predate the second world war. She'd once 
accused Teddy Barlow of buying it because there was no place on Aberteyrnas 
that would provide him with take-away coffee. He'd replied that there was merely 
no place that would deliver it. He'd decided at the time that they were kindred 
spirits, in that neither of them could cook.
	She found a mug with relatively few chips. It purported to be the first in a 
series of mugs issued by the Royal Ornithological Institute, and proclaimed 'I 
Love Tits.' Other offerings of the series, 'I Love Finches,' 'I Love Swallows' and 
so on were probably not quite as popular, she allowed as she filled it with coffee. 
It was a kindness that John Quick had introduced her to the practice of drinking it 
black, as she decided that she dared not look into Teddy Barlow's refrigerator for 
milk. Her last foray into it had left her with the distinct sense that there was 
something unearthly growing behind its door.
	The coffee lacked the bite of Gwen's, she decided, who'd been taught by John 
Quick to make it as roadworkers made tar. It served to dispel the last of her sleep. 
She drifted slowly back into the bedroom, the gloom and decay of the kitchen 
somehow dissipated. She felt faintly uncomfortable, as if she'd forgotten to fully 
dress herself. She was amused when she realized that it wasn't the lack of her 
knickers that was troubling her, but rather the lack of her knife.
	He'd unstrapped it from her leg some time during the night, she recalled, and 
hung it over one of the rails at the head of the bed. She placed the coffee mug on 
his bureau and set about trying to locate it. Clearly it had slipped off and fallen, 
which she decided wasn't surprising given what they'd done to the bed thereafter.
	She reached into the dust and cobwebs between the bed and the wall, hoping 
that most Welsh spiders wouldn't fancy sharing their accommodations with an 
English lodger. She was a moment locating the leather strap that she imagined 
must be attached to the sheath of her knife. It felt unfamiliar, but there seemed to 
be little else that could be lurking behind the bed.
	As the thing in her hand ascended into daylight she realized that it was not her 
knife at all. The straps of the knife sheath had become entangled with a leather 
holster which had been hung behind the bed. She regarded the creature of straps 
and buckles for several seconds before she realized why it seemed so strange. She 
dropped her knife to the bed and removed the tiny pistol from where it had been 
concealed.
	She stared at it, unwilling to resolve the details in her hand into something 
comprehensible. The side of the gun bore three arrows and three rings, a 
trademark of the Italian armaments maker Pietro Beretta SpA. It seemed 
remarkable, she allowed, feeling her eyes grow wet, that she'd shown a picture of 
the same gun to Gwen not a day earlier.
	"You bastard," she whispered, uncertain for a moment whether she'd meant 
the curse for the pistol or its owner.
	Uncertainly she lifted the gun to her face and sniffed its barrel. The flinty, 
burnt smell of cordite assailed her. She thumbed the magazine catch and dropped 
the magazine from the pistol's grip into her hand. She pushed on the round at the 
top of the magazine, feeling it disappear into the case. There was a round missing, 
a round fired.
	"You bloody bastard." She felt her jaw stiffen. The metal was slick in her 
hand, more from condensation than from a recent oiling. There were dark calluses 
of rust along the truncated barrel of the Beretta. Beyond his other failings of 
character, she thought fleetingly, he'd neglected his weapon.
	Rust is neglect. She'd noticed the phrase printed on a card dangling from the 
trigger guard of a Winchester shotgun John Quick had brought back unused from 
some job or other. It had seemed rather simplistic at the time, she recalled, but it 
had come to symbolize the respect of oil and cloth on machined steel for her.
	She shook her head, deciding that she was allowing her thoughts to wander 
rather than confronting the ugly little monster crouched in her hand.  
	Handguns were a liability. John Quick had said so on more occasions than she 
could count. She let his words replay in her head as she stared at the gun, feeling 
the teeth of her anger seeking for purchase in her flesh. Handguns gave one a 
feeling of invincibility. They deluded whoever held them. It was all too easy to 
lose control of a gun, or to find that it had misfired, or that one had forgotten the 
safety on. Handguns were intricate little mechanisms that spent their uncertain 
existences waiting for the day when they could go wrong unexpectedly. Handguns 
were only slightly more dangerous to the ones they were pointed at.
	It sounded to her now like a litany, something to be recited daily until it 
became a part of her being.
	He'd spent weeks teaching her to use the Glock, to appreciate its limitations. 
The thing in her hand was like a diminutive reflection of her pistol, a toy, as she'd 
described it to Gwen. She was overwhelmed with the desire to take it to pieces and 
smash its workings under her heel.
	Quickly, imagining John Quick speaking to her, she pushed each of its shells 
from the magazine, letting them drop to the bed. When the magazine was empty 
she replaced one round in it and pushed it back into the pistol until it snapped into 
place. She pulled the slide back and released it, feeling the single cartridge snap 
into the pistol's chamber. She gathered the remaining shells and dropped them into 
a pocket of her dress. Finally, she returned the knife to its place on her thigh, the 
press of its leather against her flesh familiar and comforting.
	Teddy Barlow was several minutes longer completing his bath. She sat on the 
bed until she heard him rise from the water. She was standing before the door to 
the bathroom when he emerged, a frayed blue towel wrapped about his waist while 
he rubbed his hair dry with another.
	She brought the gun from behind her back, raising it until it pointed between 
his eyes. She met his gaze for an instant, watching the color drain from his 
features. His attention seemed drawn to the muzzle of the tiny pistol, as if it were 
the hypnotic stare of a jungle cat about to leap from an overhanging branch and 
maul him.
	"Drop the towel, put your hands on your head and turn around slowly," she 
commanded, hearing the dominated rage in her own voice.
	"Please, love..." he began.
	"Drop the fucking towel," she shouted. He let the smaller one fall.
	"And the other."
	His brow creased. "Please... my modesty," he said, the beginning of a smile 
touching his features. She gestured minutely with the gun. He reached down with 
one hand and the towel fell from his hips, gathering at his feet. He placed his 
hands on top of his head. She moved the gun in a tight circle and he revolved 
obediently until he was facing her again.
	She stared at him. She half recalled thinking the night before that he would be 
a stranger if she saw him clearly with his clothes off, and so it seemed to be. It was 
suddenly beyond her to imagine sharing a bed with him, to imagine him inside her. 
She glanced at the tuft of hair at his crotch, thinking him somehow vulgar and 
obscene in the daylight. The pistol was growing sweaty in her palm. She felt her 
finger tighten minutely on the trigger, thinking that she could be revenged upon 
him with little more than an effort of will.
	She reminded herself of the man in the dove-gray suit, the man she'd been all 
but certain the day before had owned the gun that had shot at her. The peculiarity 
of her holding that gun now was troubling.
	"I've every call to have that, love," he said. She glared at him and he glanced 
away from her, as if in acknowledgement that he'd forsaken any further right to 
refer to her by pet names.
	"It's not what you think," he continued. "You... you shouldn't have gone 
looking for that."
	"I didn't look for it," she growled. "Someone didn't hide it very well."
	A flicker of exasperation crossed his features. "I'm with MI6... secret 
intelligence service," he said evenly, in a tone that suggested he'd spoken the 
words often. "I can prove it if you'll give me a moment. Please put the gun down 
before you do someone an injury with it."
 	He gestured minutely across the room toward the bureau. She forced 
herself not to look where he was pointing, another fragment of something 
John Quick had told her once.
	He was studying her, she knew, watching to see what crossed her face. She 
was distantly surprised that the gun wasn't trembling in her hand, that she'd 
instinctively held it as she'd been taught, her right hand around the pistol and her 
left around her right wrist. There was a good ten feet between them, as John Quick 
had instructed her – far enough to allow her to react if he chose to attempt to catch 
her off guard. She was crouched slightly forward, to direct her fall should he 
produce a weapon from somewhere and disable her. She said nothing, allowing 
him to reveal what he would.
	"I do have the right to have a gun, Emma," he repeated, his tone almost 
admonishing now.
	"You haven't the right to try to kill me with it," she hissed, deciding that he 
would say little more of interest without some guidance.
	He smiled, the expression forced and superficial. "My dear girl, I didn't try to 
kill you with it. If I had there'd be little uncertainty of my intentions, as you'd be 
dead. I had hoped to frighten you off, however."
	If the Beretta was, as she'd expressed to Gwen, a poor choice of weapons to 
actually end someone's life with, it did seem capable of instilling fear in 
whomever it was aimed at. Despite his self-assured smile she could see pustules of 
sweat forming on his brow. In another moment they'd begin running into his eyes, 
she considered.
	"Are times really so hard at MI6 that their people have to find part-time work 
mending gardens?" she demanded acridly. John Quick had occasionally indulged 
himself in berating MI5 and MI6, proud of his assertion that he'd not accepted 
serious work from the British intelligence agencies in years. He'd maintained that 
one could always find an employee of MI6 in a crowd as he'd have a gun painted 
with an arrow to indicate which end the bullets emerged from.
	Teddy Barlow seemed to pretend to take offense at her question, his expression 
growing sullen. "I was sent here to keep an eye on John Quick, actually. It was 
thought that he wouldn't trouble himself over his gardener."
	"Oh, aye," she said. "Perhaps you fancied ending your work a bit early on, 
then."
	He was a moment appreciating her accusation. The timbre of his voice had 
changed when next he spoke, as if he were an aging tape recorder into which 
someone had just inserted fresh batteries. "No... you really must believe me, love. 
I was as sorry as anyone when I found out that he'd... died."
	Pull the other one, she thought. She considered telling him as much, but it 
seemed that he was prepared to carry on speaking.
	"I probably know more about John Quick than you do," he continued. "I've 
read everything there was in the files about him, talked to a few people he worked 
with, years ago. He was a brilliant man in his younger days. It was something of 
an honor to be given this assignment, actually. I think the service felt it owed him 
that much."
	In the spirit of Teddy Barlow's mug that proclaimed 'I Love Tits,' John Quick 
had had one that suggested 'Sincerity is everything – if you can fake that you've 
got it made.' She thought of the phrase now. Except for his present lack of attire, 
the lad before her could probably have had a successful career peddling 
previously-owned automobiles or time-share apartments.
	"I don't imagine he would have agreed with you," she said softly, hearing the 
edge in her own voice. "I shouldn't say he required watching."
	Teddy Barlow glanced away from her momentarily. "I know you were very 
close to him... that you think he taught you a lot. I've seen you up in the hills, 
shooting and such. You're quite talented. But John Quick... he was an old man, 
with old ideas..."
	"Then what did your lot want with him?" she demanded.
	He exhaled audibly. For a moment he stared away into the oily gloom of the 
ceiling. When he returned his attention to her he had the look of a junior-school 
teacher speaking to a particularly intractable child. "John Quick was a dinosaur," 
he said flatly. "He did his best work before you were born. He knew secret ways 
through the wall, how to make hand grenades out of playing cards and all that... 
tradecraft, they used to call it. But the wall's come down, love, and people like 
John Quick don't exist any longer. There are no more men with half a dozen 
made-up identities and numbered bank accounts."
	She stared at him, certain that he was seeking to anger her, waiting for the 
moment when she'd relinquish her attention for an instant.
	He seemed to switch on his smile from a few minutes earlier. "You can't even 
have one made-up identity any longer, Emma," he said.
	She felt her eyes narrow, watching him as he observed her.
	"They have computers now," he explained. "We knew about the birth 
certificate he created for you about an hour after he chose the name on it. That 
trick hasn't worked since the early seventies."
	She stood before him, feeling her rage grow within her. Part of it was on behalf 
of John Quick, she allowed, who certainly would have shot Teddy Barlow five 
minutes earlier if he'd been in the room. At least, she was reasonably certain he 
would have done. Would the lad before her be watching sweat on her brow, she 
wondered uncertainly.
	"I don't believe you," she said at length. "If it was as you say and he was dead 
hopeless, they wouldn't have bothered sending you here to watch over him."
	"I was sent here as much for John's protection as for anything else," he said 
evenly. "We know he's been doing jobs for freelance clients over the years... 
mostly for the old men he knew from the cold war. At first it was settling 
grudges... an old spy killing other old spies before they could write their memoirs 
and die in their sleep. It was really rather touching, in a way... a proud old horse 
running a few more races before being put out to grass."
 	He seemed unaccountably pleased with the image, and she was a moment 
reminding herself that he'd no doubt chosen it to anger her further.
	"More recently he began to get ahead of himself. He did a few people who 
were involved with the drugs cartels, the Libyans, the Palestinians... people he 
didn't understand and probably couldn't even imagine. It was only a matter of 
time before one of them got sufficiently irritated with him to see that he stopped 
bothering them. I thought... I thought that he could be looked after, that no one 
would find him out here..."
	It sounded like the sort of thing a stockbroker would say in defense of potting 
his aging parents in a nursing home, she decided. John Quick had been well past 
twice her age, but she'd not regarded him as being old.
	She smiled coldly at him. "You're quite full of shit," she said. His lips pursed 
for an instant, a look of exasperation contorting his features. Clearly he'd 
imagined that she'd been believing him.
	His hands dropped to his sides. "Put the bloody gun down, girl," he said 
sternly. "You won't use it." He gestured at her. "Look, you haven't even checked 
the safety."
	He took the beginning of a step forward. She aimed the gun minutely to the 
right of his head and squeezed its trigger. A rather tame explosion assailed her ears 
for a moment, shattering the dusty silence of the cottage, followed by the all but 
inaudible rattle of a tiny brass cartridge clattering on the slate at her feet. Teddy 
Barlow shrieked and flung himself toward the bed. He dropped to his knees, his 
hands fluttering about himself, clearly trying to ascertain whether he had in fact 
been shot.
	"Twenty-five caliber Berettas don't have safeties," she said evenly. "All they 
have is a barrel catch, and I did check that, ta. I can't say why they're made that 
way, unless it was felt that any bastard stupid enough to own one deserves to have 
his balls shot off with his own gun."
	He stared at her with huge, round eyes, suddenly oozing with panic. She 
gestured toward him with the muzzle of the gun and he rose uncertainly to his feet. 
One of the comforts of an automatic pistol was that it was impossible to ascertain 
the number of rounds left in it, she considered, wondering briefly what his reaction 
would be if he learned that the weapon which threatened him now was empty. As 
John Quick had suggested once, the gun in her hand was capable of performing its 
intended function loaded or not.
	Teddy Barlow glared at her, his face a mask of dread and what she imagined 
was humiliation. "If you kill me..." he whined.
	"I won't kill you, Mister Barlow," she interrupted him, gesturing at his crotch 
with the tiny pistol. "I think it's possible to have this thing stuck in your ear and 
still miss. I shouldn't like to think what it might do to your knees, or your hands... 
or some of those other bits you seem to be fond of."
	He forced a fresh look of exasperation to his features, although it seemed 
diluted by the watery, bloodless texture of his skin. "You don't understand, 
Emma," he pleaded.
	In deference to one of John Quick's lessons she had removed all but one round 
from the pistol. As had happened countless times of late, she wondered how he'd 
managed to anticipate this moment when he'd instructed her all those years earlier. 
She glanced at the gun in her hand and then returned her attention to Teddy 
Barlow. There were things she needed to know, she allowed, things only he was 
likely to tell her. None the less, if there'd been another round in the magazine of 
the Beretta she'd most certainly have put it in his brain.
	"Perhaps you'll explain to me what it is I don't understand."
	"John Quick was involved in one of his... his freelance projects when he died. 
He didn't complete the job, as far as we know. It's important that we learn who he 
was to kill and who hired him to do the job."
	"You're quite right, Mister Barlow," she spat, deciding that his questions were 
something of an answer to her own. "I don't understand. This was not a job that 
John Quick saw fit to take me into his confidence over."
	He considered her, his eyes alight like oily pearls still wet with the slime and 
bleeding sinews of the oysters that had engendered them. As if in a practiced 
gesture he allowed his face to fall, his eyes to drift from her. "I'm genuinely sorry 
for having... having abused your trust, Emma," he said. His words were delivered 
with enough synthetic emotion as to have embarrassed the actors in an Australian 
soap opera, she considered. "You've every right to be cross with me... to be 
furious, if you wish. This is something very important, though. We believe that 
John Quick was hired to kill someone that our government doesn't want dead. 
Whoever hired him... whoever sent him to his death, Emma... will hire someone 
else. We have to know who that was. It's for the good of England."
	She said nothing for a moment, waiting to see if he'd continue. "The great 
shame of all this is that I've a gun in my hand, or I'd like to applaud," she began at 
length. "It's very grand, that bit about the good of England. Pity that this is Wales, 
and I'm Welsh, and the only Englishman on the island is an utter bastard."
	"That's where you're wrong, love," he said softly, as if he'd been forcibly 
reminded of the proximity of the gun and the likelihood that she'd use it again. 
"There are several of my... colleagues on the island. If anything happens to me... 
well, the next bullet that comes through your window won't be just to frighten 
you."
	She forced herself to smile at him for an instant. "Oh, aye... did you mend the 
broken window?"
	A flicker of confusion touched his features. "Yes... why?"
	"Because I've no further use of you," she said quietly. "You can go off and 
join your... colleagues now." He opened his mouth to speak, but she decided that 
she'd not finished. "I think I'll go up to the house. In half an hour I'll return here 
with a proper gun and I'll use it on any English pillocks I come across. It would be 
well if you left Aberteyrnas with the next ferry." 
	She heard him exhale, thinking the sound foreign to the cottage, as if he'd not 
thought to breath until this instant. He'd been certain she'd meant to empty the 
gun into him when their conversation had concluded, she decided. She glanced at 
the pistol, deciding that there was a final use for it, however much John Quick 
would have decried her for it.
	"You can take this with you," she said. Turning, she tossed the pistol to the far 
side of the bed and made for the door.
	The door to the cottage opened with the lament of rusted iron hinges and 
ancient wood cobbled together with too many nails from too many centuries. She 
was almost through it when she heard him hurl himself over the bed, heard the 
rattle of bedsprings and the hollow, angry snap of the pistol's hammer on an 
empty chamber. He pulled the trigger three times more before she heard him shout 
something unintelligible at her back. She resisted the desire to look back at him, to 
withdraw the handful of impotent bullets from her pocket and drop them in the 
muddy ground as she stepped into the wet, gray pallor of the morning.

• • •

A fly buzzed angrily at one of the windows of John Quick's office, crashing 
audibly into the glass from time to time as it struggled to escape into the chill of 
late autumn and die with its fellows. She'd stalked it with a rolled magazine for 
some while before she'd accepted that it was destined to remain a fixture of the 
office for the foreseeable future.
	She glanced at the window now out of reflex, something she realized she'd 
been doing for several hours and determined angrily not to do again. The tied 
cottage that Teddy Barlow had recently vacated was clearly visible from the 
second floor of the house. She'd watched him leave it shortly after she'd returned 
to the house, a small suitcase crushed beneath one arm. He'd required nothing like 
the half hour she'd allotted him.
	Clearly he'd left most of his things behind. They'd all been part of a disguise, 
and no longer required. John Quick had known the correct term for them, she 
thought absently, trying to recall the word. They'd been a 'legend,' the details of 
an assumed identity. Presumably he was returning to his real identity now.
	His real identity was a bastard in service to her majesty's government, she 
considered, enjoying her moment of spite.
	A featureless blue car had drawn warily through the gates of John Quick's 
estate and paused before the cottage, clearly having been summoned by Teddy 
Barlow. It had occurred to her, as she'd watched his tiny stick figure stride toward 
it, that there would come a time over the next few hours or days when her 
reservoir of anger would finally be depleted and she'd find herself missing him. It 
would be a peculiar sensation when it happened, she thought now. She would miss 
a man who'd never existed, and loath what he'd been when last she'd seen him.
	The Glock rested on the corner of John Quick's desk, partially hidden beneath 
a stack of papers. She hadn't anticipated requiring its services this day, and she 
decided now that it was better thus. John Quick had taken pains to instruct her in 
the distinction between people who genuinely deserved to die and those for whom 
there seemed to be no justification for their continued existence. If the demise of 
the former was handled correctly no one particularly minded, and in the proper 
circumstances doing away with them could be reasonably rewarding. Even in the 
sintering, incandescent rage in which she'd entered the office several hours earlier 
she'd been sufficiently composed to appreciate that her killing Teddy Barlow 
would not have been ignored by the people who'd sent him to Aberteyrnas.
	She glanced fitfully about the room now, listening intently to the soft rattle of 
rain on the slates above her, to Gwen's muted footsteps in the kitchen. Her world 
had suddenly become very still, switched off and ticking erratically as it cooled. 
The dark red glow of something raw and primal still flickered within it.
	It had taken her almost an hour to appreciate what still troubled her. Teddy 
Barlow had eclipsed her original line of speculation, she'd realized – the worn, 
scattered threads of dove-gray cloth she'd begun following. It occurred to her now, 
as she allowed the events of the morning to replay once more in her thoughts, that 
it might well have been his intention to do so.
	The face she'd watched for hours at the Red Lion had been familiar. She was 
certain of it now. It hadn't looked quite like she'd seen it the previous night when 
first she'd encountered it, and at length she realized that she'd not seen the man 
before, but only his photograph. She glanced at the stack of papers which 
concealed her pistol, and another beside it, and several more on the far side of the 
desk. If she'd seen his photograph it would have been because John Quick had 
shown it to her. Regrettably, John Quick had filed his papers by leaving them 
wherever they fell until the weight of the upper ones compressed the lower ones 
into strata of coal.
	She'd searched among the stacks of papers throughout the afternoon, at first 
without knowing what she was looking for. She'd encountered a number of 
photographs. She'd been disturbed on two occasions by them, finding them 
familiar because she'd previously watched those faces through a rifle scope. Some 
of them were several years old.
	It was well into the afternoon by the time she encountered the picture she 
thought she recalled, and her wits had become numbed by the passage of endless 
sheets of paper before her eyes. She'd come to appreciate how much of John 
Quick's time on the island had been spent alone. He'd amused himself in peculiar 
ways. She'd encountered a photograph of John Major with bullet holes through his 
eyes. He'd actually shot the picture, she decided – the holes were ragged and 
slightly scorched by the passage of bullets through the paper, and there were 
punctures at the top and bottom of the photograph where he'd stapled it to a tree.
	She'd subsequently encountered Margaret Thatcher with holes where her 
mouth should have been and the lower half of a photograph of George Bush. The 
upper portion of his head was missing, having been removed by an even line of 
bullets. 
	When the man in the gray suit finally deigned to show himself, he turned up at 
the bottom of the stack of pages that was concealing her gun. She heard herself 
gasp as she withdrew his picture from an unmarked brown envelope, letting it rest 
in her hand for a moment like a holy relic recently unearthed after centuries of 
entombment.
	Without taking her eyes from the likeness, she withdrew a sheet of paper that 
had shared its envelope and placed it on the cluttered desk before her.
	The man in the photograph looked somehow less polished and aloof than the 
one in the pub the previous night. The light on his face was harsh and unflattering, 
and he was dressed in a crumpled mackintosh. He had a packet of cigarettes in one 
hand. He appeared to be emerging from a shop, its details out of focus.
	She glanced at the page that had accompanied the photograph. It appeared to 
be a police record. The man's name was Ernst Gemmhardt. He was a resident of 
the city of Stuttgart, in Germany. He was fifty-one years old. He was suspected of 
fifteen murders by his own hand, and he'd fled Germany six weeks earlier to 
escape prosecution for trafficking in heroin. There were several paragraphs 
describing him and his known associates, followed by a detailed list of the crimes 
he was known to have committed or was suspected of. The bottom of the page 
bore oversized reproductions of his fingerprints.
	It was a German police record, she decided, although it had clearly been 
adapted for John Quick's benefit. An uneven checkerboard of boxes had been 
filled in with a typewriter, with each of the original German legends for the boxes 
stroked out and overwritten in English.
	The page was flimsy and it curled when she attempted to lay it flat on the desk. 
She was a moment realizing that it wasn't conventional paper at all, but rather the 
output of a FAX machine. Curious, she returned her attention to the photograph.
	Photographs invariably said more about the people who made them than about 
the people in them, John Quick had maintained. She opened one of the 
overflowing drawers of his desk and located an ancient brass magnifying glass, 
wondering if she'd be able to recall everything he'd said about the arcania of 
photography.
	She began by turning the photograph over. The watermark of the paper it was 
printed on said AGFA GEVAERT. There were four major producers of photographic 
materials, these being Agfa in Germany, Ilford in Britain, Fuji in Japan and 
Eastman Kodak in the United States. Each of them exported their products to some 
extent, but the fact of the photograph having been printed on German paper lent 
credence to its origins.
	The paper smelled faintly of ammonia. It had a thick, slightly resinous surface. 
It had been printed by hand and processed in trays, rather than using a processing 
machine. Whoever had printed it had been in a hurry, and had not washed it very 
well. In a few months it would begin to turn brown as the acid in its surface broke 
down its emulsion. It wasn't an archive photograph – someone had printed it 
specifically to send to John Quick, and hadn't cared about its permanence. It had 
been done in a private darkroom where few people would have had the 
opportunity to view it.
	She regarded the image in the photograph once more, this time with greater 
scrutiny. John Quick had made much of the importance of the things behind the 
subjects in pictures. She strained to resolve details in the sand-painting of blurred 
forms whirling about in her lens.
	It was some while before she realized what was odd about the photograph. 
She'd hoped to find a readable sign in the shop window behind Ernst Gemmhardt. 
This had quickly proven unlikely – clearly the picture had been taken through a 
long lens with almost no depth of field. Only the man's face was in focus. There 
were several rectangular shapes in the window behind him, but they were so badly 
blurred as to render them blank.
	There was also no name above the shop.
	There was a single word visible in the photograph, and on reflection it too was 
rather odd. She could make out the name on the packet of Marlboro cigarettes the 
man was holding. This German drugs smuggler, photographed before what she 
took to be a German shop, printed on German paper was smoking American 
cigarettes.
	He was about to smoke an American cigarette, she corrected herself. He had 
withdrawn one from the packet and held it in his right hand. He held it oddly, with 
his middle finger bent into a semicircle, crushing it against his index finger. It 
looked as if his hand were somehow crippled. She allowed that as she didn't 
smoke herself she was unaware of the various ways in which one might hold a 
cigarette. She experimented with a pencil for a few moments, finding the gesture 
singularly awkward.
	There was a box of matches clamped between one finger of his left hand and 
the packet of cigarettes. She stared at it for a time. They were Swan matches, 
English matches. An American would have had a folder of paper matches.
	She stared again at the signs in the shop window, willing some minute details 
to appear in their surfaces. They were wholly featureless, she decided. They really 
had been blank when the photograph had been taken. She could not imagine any 
reason for someone to place blank signs in a shop window.
	Without thinking, she opened the drawer of John Quick's desk once more. 
After emptying some of its contents onto the already seething top of the desk, she 
found what she was after. She unfolded an artist's loupe, a very much more 
powerful lens, and placed it on the surface of the photograph.
	She required a line in the image which delineated a sharp transition from black 
to white. Seen through the loupe, the picture was a dark, oily sea of featureless 
gray. She finally found a suitable area in the lettering of the cigarette packet. It 
disturbed her to realize that she was staring at exactly what she'd expected to find.
	Sufficiently magnified, the details of the photograph turned out to have been 
rendered in a mosaic of tiny square tiles, causing any diagonal lines to appear as 
the silhouettes of ziggurats. She lifted her eye from the lens for a moment and 
glanced about the room, wondering if she'd imagined seeing the squares. When 
she returned her attention to the loupe they remained clearly visible.
	The picture had been retouched. Specifically, it had been digitized, 
manipulated with a computer and then regenerated on film so it would look like a 
photograph to anyone who wasn't expecting to find it otherwise.
	Five years earlier, when John Quick had spent an afternoon discoursing at 
length on what could be done with computerized imaging, the equipment required 
to produce a photograph like this one would have been prohibitively expensive. It 
would almost certainly have tied the picture to a government agency. She recalled 
now that six months previously he'd hired a personal computer and a scanner for a 
fortnight from a shop on the mainland to alter several photographs. It had cost less 
than hiring a car.
	Anyone could have altered the photograph, but it remained puzzling that 
anyone would have wanted to do so. The Ernst Gemmhardt of the picture looked 
sufficiently like the Ernst Gemmhardt who drank expensive scotch in expensive 
clothes at the Red Lion. 
	She looked again at the FAXed record of the misdeeds of the man in the 
photograph. It looked German, she decided – the appropriate characters had 
umlauts, the letter ß had not been replaced with B, as an English writer might have 
done. The structure of the language was awkward, suggesting that it had been 
translated.
	She heard herself exhale loudly, the room suddenly disturbingly quiet. The 
page in her hand had little to offer her but innuendo and new gossip for her 
speculation. There was very likely a way to verify its authenticity, to fix the face 
of Ernst Gemmhardt in the crossed hairs of her imagination. She smiled thinly into 
the shadows at the far end of the room. She might well find that she'd returned 
him to the automobile salesmen's convention where he belonged.
	She rose from her chair and crossed the room. There was a polished oak door 
set into the wall to her left, what Gwen might have taken for a closet if she'd been 
permitted in this room when John Quick had been alive. It was locked. She felt 
about in the pocket of her dress for the rather peculiar key that fit its lock, finding 
it at length. When it swung open she found herself facing a second door.
	The outer door to John Quick's most private of places had been made to look 
like all the other doors in the house. The one immediately behind it had clearly 
abandoned the pretense. It was steel, featureless gray and all the more formidable 
for its contrast with the dark, carved wood which usually concealed it. It offered 
nowhere to insert a key. A glowing keypad was set into the frame beside it. She 
entered the four digits that would satisfy the door of her intentions and she heard 
the muted click of its bolt being withdrawn. She pushed it before herself and felt 
about on the far side of the jamb for a light switch.
	The room was small – it had once clearly been a somewhat generous closet, for 
the former owners of the house. It was lit by a single fluorescent tube now, casting 
chiseled reflections about the tiny chamber. To her right a row of shelves offered a 
featureless scattering of metal cases, the body armor of John Quick's collection of 
firearms. Further along were several boxes of papers that she'd thus far absolved 
herself of having to sort through. She glared at them for a moment before she 
drove them from her awareness.
	There was a small desk along the left wall, barely leaving room for the chair 
before it. It had not been intended for working at, and unlike the one she'd just 
vacated, it lacked the heaps of books and pages that had accompanied John Quick. 
Its sole occupant was a FAX machine.
	The air in the tiny room was stale and lifeless. It had probably been weeks 
since anyone had been in here, she considered. She regarded the FAX machine for a 
moment, thinking about it locked away in perpetual night, tirelessly awaiting 
messages for its owner, now dead. It hadn't been wholly idle – several pages of 
flimsy, curled paper lay in the metal cage that hung before it over the edge of the 
desk. Curious, she withdrew them.
	It was another advert for a fitness club, she realized, dropping the pages into a 
wastepaper basket beside the desk. John Quick had been rather disturbed to find 
that unwanted messages had appeared from time to time on the machine when 
he'd first acquired it, its telephone number being known to only a handful of 
people. None of them particularly cared what sorts of clubs he joined. At length 
he'd discovered that there were companies who compiled lists of those telephone 
numbers which connected to FAX machines by systematically dialing numbers and 
seeing which lines emitted the tortured feline screech of a FAX. His secret FAX 
number, along with hundreds of others, had been for hire to anyone with 
something to sell.
	She considered the machine. John Quick had described it as a miracle of 
finding uses for lighted buttons that no one else had thus far imagined. There was 
a thick, rather dog-eared manual wedged beneath it. She was some while locating 
the page she wanted. Uncertainly she stabbed at the buttons of the FAX.
	Almost silently, the machine came to life and began to emit a page, clicking 
erratically. When a sufficient length of paper had emerged, it was cut loose and 
dropped into the metal basket before the machine. She picked it up and regarded it.
	The FAX machine was like an over-eager servant, desperate to please its 
masters. It performed countless tasks in addition to its usual function of sending 
and receiving sheets of paper. The one that had most annoyed John Quick was its 
insistence upon retaining a record of the transmissions it dealt with, which it 
would print periodically or whenever anyone asked it to. She had just done so. 
John Quick had disliked the idea that the machine might be coerced into revealing 
whom he'd called with it, but the copious manual that had detailed its every 
button, light and display had not indicated that there was a way to disable its log.
	She ran her finger along the edge of page. There were fourteen calls listed, of 
which twelve were incoming. One of them would have been the FAX with Ernst 
Gemmhardt's police record. Of the dozen incoming calls, all but two of them had 
originated within Britain. One had the country code 81, which she recalled 
indicated that it had come from Japan. The next to last number on the page began 
with country code 49, the international telephone code for Germany. It had the city 
code 711. She pulled a ragged telephone directory from a drawer of the desk and 
began flipping through it. When at last she located the list of international dialing 
instructions, the city code 711 turned out to be for Stuttgart.
	The FAX machine had received a transmission from the same city where Ernst 
Gemmhardt had lived until his recent hasty departure.
	Among its other talents, she knew, the FAX machine could serve as a repository 
of messages. Every FAX machine knew its own telephone number, and transmitted 
it before it began sending the pages it was intended to handle. It was possible to 
instruct the machine to transmit a stored message to another machine that called 
from a predetermined telephone number.
	This was how John Quick had used the FAX machine. He'd regarded it as a 
very secure way to send messages, as one needed to know both the telephone 
number of the FAX machine holding the message and the number that it expected 
to be called from in order to make the system work. He'd also learned that while 
telephone conversations could be eavesdropped upon, it was all but impossible to 
intercept a FAX.
	She lifted the handset from the side of the machine and dialed the German 
telephone number. An unfamiliar, metallic fluttering sounded in her ear as the 
distant telephone rang. A moment later the FAX at the far end of the connection 
began screaming. She pushed the SEND button on the machine before her and hung 
up. A green light on the button flashed for a moment, but when the FAX machine 
realized that it had been given nothing to transmit, it abruptly broke the 
connection.
	It was almost a minute before the FAX machine emitted its electronic 
simulation of the ringing of a telephone. A moment later a page inched from it, 
paused, and plummeted into the basket before it. She watched it emerge from the 
machine, realizing as she did that she was looking at a duplicate copy of Ernst 
Gemmhardt's police record.
	She glanced again at the FAX machine's log sheet. The first copy had arrived 
nine days before John Quick had been killed. Someone in Germany had notified 
John Quick that there was a FAX waiting for him. It waited still, and would do until 
she FAXed its owner to say that the work was complete.
	Wordlessly she switched off the overhead lamp, glancing back at the FAX 
machine. Its pin-prick lights glowed like emeralds in the stellar night of the tiny 
room. She pulled the door to behind her, ensuring that it was locked, and then 
closed the outer door to conceal it.
	The disturbing possibility in all this, she mused, crossing the room once more 
to John Quick's desk, was that Teddy Barlow might well have been telling her the 
truth. It was unfathomable why her majesty's government would fancy Ernst 
Gemmhardt kept alive, but then it was equally unfathomable why it would have a 
man with no chin as its leader or collect taxes in excess of most of its subjects' 
yearly incomes. She smiled at this, uncertain for a moment whether it was 
something John Quick had actually said or it was merely in keeping with his usual 
sentiments about the ruling classes.
	She heard her heart in her chest as she regarded the piles of papers on the desk 
before her, withdrawing the Glock from beneath one of them. In a rather more 
convoluted manner than was usually his practice, John Quick had laid out the job 
before her. He'd often done so in this room. There came a moment when the 
matter ceased to be theoretical – the instant when she realized that she would be 
expected to shoot or stab someone a fortnight hence. The distinction was that on 
those former occasions, John Quick had at length leant back in his chair, gazed 
into the mossy shadows of the ceiling and asked "Well then, girl... do you fancy 
you're up to it?"
	Well then, girl, she thought archly. She glanced uncertainly at the pistol in her 
hand. While it was unlikely to be the weapon she'd use to do the job, it was 
sufficiently lethal to remind her of what she was about to undertake. The plastic 
handgrips had grown sweaty against her palm in the few moments she'd been 
holding them.
	The room rumbled with the muted drum beat of someone knocking. She shook 
her head, dispelling her reverie. Her first instinct was to return the gun to its hiding 
place beneath John Quick's papers, she realized, as if she were about to be caught 
reading something embarrassing. Embarrassment was unlikely to be an issue at 
present, she reminded herself. There were two people likely to be beyond the 
office door, and the gun might serve her equally well for either.
	"Excuse me, ma'am," Gwen called from the landing. Emma heard herself 
exhale. "I've brought coffee."
	Was it the occasion of another of John Quick's ritual coffee services, she 
wondered crossly. She glanced at her wrist, realizing as she did that she'd not 
worn a watch. She wondered if even Gwen's barbaric coffee would be capable of 
clearing her head.
	"Aye... ta," she called. Uncertainly the door before her opened.
	Gwen appeared with a tray poised on one hand. She was well into the room 
before she noticed the pistol. Her face seemed suddenly drained of blood, and she 
came close to dropping her tray for the second time in as many days. Emma stared 
at the ghostly features of the girl for a moment before she realized the cause of her 
sudden disquiet. Wordlessly she placed the Glock on the desk beside herself.
	"I'm... I'm dreadfully sorry, ma'am," Gwen began uncertainly, clearly looking 
for somewhere to deposit the coffee things so she might leave. "I'd not meant to 
disturb you."
	"I'm not disturbed," Emma said evenly. "I was sorting through a few of John 
Quick's things." She pushed a stack of papers to one side and gestured for Gwen 
to put her tray on the desk.
	The girl's eyes hadn't relinquished the pistol, even though it lay immobile now 
on the desk behind the coffee service. "Ma'am?"
	Emma smiled in a way she hoped might be disarming. "It isn't loaded," she 
lied, reasonably certain Gwen wouldn't have known how to ascertain the truth of 
her statement.
	This seemed to comfort Gwen minutely. "I'm not certain I'd get along well 
with guns... begging your pardon, ma'am," Gwen muttered.
	Emma smiled to herself, hoping the girl wouldn't notice her amusement.
	"Begging your pardon again, ma'am... there's a problem with the water in the 
downstairs loo. It's gone brown again. Shall I have Mister Barlow come up and 
see to it?"
	Emma turned toward one of the windows of the office. It had grown somnolent 
and dark over the hours of the late afternoon. She felt her jaw tighten, hearing the 
confined anger in her voice when at length she spoke. "Mister Barlow is no longer 
with us," she whispered.
	Gwen was silent for a moment. "I don't understand, ma'am," she said quietly, 
her tone suggesting that perhaps she did to some extent.
	At other times, before the threads of her days had been so inexorably tangled 
and torn to rags, she might have indulged herself in planning an evening out at this 
hour of the afternoon. There seemed little left to entertain herself with now. 
Perhaps this was to be a day of seeing to unenviable chores. "Are you still 
determined to stay in the house?" she asked Gwen, speaking into the shadows at 
the far end of the room.
	"Aye, ma'am," the girl replied.
	"Then there are some things you'll want to know. I'd like you to promise me 
that you'll not repeat them to anyone else... ever."
	"Aye, ma'am... if you say so." 
	She'd agreed rather too quickly, Emma thought. Gwen no doubt imagined that 
she'd had some manner of lover's spat with her lad, and she didn't want it spread 
about the village.
	"Mister Barlow is no longer with us because I had a shot at him this morning 
with the pistol he tried to shoot me with yesterday afternoon," she began, turning 
at last to face Gwen. The girl's eyes were suddenly wide, her expression 
suggesting that she was concerned that she might not have understood what had 
been said to her.
	It occurred to her as she spoke that she was repeating much of what she'd said 
to Doctor McKie the previous day, that her conversation with him had been a 
rehearsal for this one. The image of Gwen running from the room in tears and 
escaping to the village to have a word with the local police leered at her from the 
blackened dungeons of her imagination.
	She ended the tale as she'd begun it. When there was nothing more to say she 
turned her back to Gwen once more. The girl's face was reflected in one of the 
windows. "Are you still determined to stay in the house?" she asked again.
	"Aye, ma'am." Gwen smiled, her expression that of a child who'd realized it 
had been asked a trick question and had seen through the deception.
	"It might not be for very long," she cautioned. "Until I've seen the solicitors I 
won't know if I'll have anything to pay your wages with."
	"I know, ma'am." 
	When she turned to face Gwen, the girl was staring fixedly at the far window. 
The perpetual gray autumnal storms that gouged and pummeled the rocks of 
Aberteyrnas had risen, snarling from the sea once again, streaking the glass with 
rime. Gwen's unspoken assertion was clear. If she was to be skint, it was better to 
be skint and dry.
	Something distracted Emma, a fleeting thought she'd entertained at various 
times over the previous week. "If you'll be staying in the house, perhaps you could 
retire the maid's costume at last," she suggested.
	Gwen's brow furled. "Ma'am?" she asked.
	"You needn't dress like that any longer."
	From the first hour of her employment, Gwen had gone about the house in a 
starched white pinnie and a black skirt. The uniform had not been an easy one to 
locate, requiring a voyage to the mainland and an afternoon meandering through 
shops. It had occurred to her at the time that Gwen would have looked slightly 
anachronistic in Edwardian times dressed thus.
	"It's what you said I was to wear when I came for the job, ma'am."
	Emma felt her face redden, wondering why the matter should trouble her.
	"Actually, it's what... John Quick had me give you to wear," she said 
uncertainly.
	"Yes, ma'am," Gwen acknowledged. "Is it not... appropriate?"
	She smiled to herself, hearing her own breathing for an instant in the silence of 
the room. "I don't think so. I shouldn't think it's what you were asked to wear for 
your previous situations."
	That had been unkind, she chided herself. Gwen was a moment replying. She 
clearly wasn't certain how domestics were expected dress.
	"Ma'am?" she asked, unnerved. 
	"In all likelihood you'll be wanting another situation presently... should things 
not work out here. If you must concoct references, it's well not to use the same 
typewriter for all of them. Should your next employer ask you to wear a uniform 
with a skirt that barely covers your arse, I'd tell him to get stuffed."
	"But Mister Quick..."
	"It pleased John Quick to watch you bending over when you went about the 
house," she said hurriedly. She recalled an argument she'd had with John Quick 
over Gwen's apparel. She'd ultimately refused to have a maid's uniform tailored 
for the girl with both a short skirt and a plunging neck.
	"He was a decent man... in his way," she continued, determined now not to be 
amused by his perpetual interest in anything in a dress. "He would never have 
actually... done anything. I shouldn't think it's the same in most houses."
	Gwen regarded her for a moment. "What should I be wearing, then?" she 
asked.
	"I'm not bothered. Perhaps something warm... I've a sense that coal will be 
short this winter."
	She'd occasionally encountered Gwen on the road to the village when it had 
been the girl's evening off. She seemed to have other clothes, although as she 
watched Gwen considering her situation she doubted that the girl would think 
them suitable for wearing about the house. John Quick had steeped the estate in a 
sense of formality and order, perhaps in compensation for the shards of chaos it 
was his calling to scatter about the rest of the world. His presence remained, 
spectral and unspeaking, between these walls.
	"Will that be all, ma'am?" Gwen asked.
	"Aye," she replied. "I shall be going down to the village in a moment."
	Gwen rose and curtsied mechanically, the gesture suddenly seeming badly 
affected. Perhaps it had always been thus. She glanced about the room, clearly 
taken by the opportunity to consider its mysteries at length. She stared into a far 
corner for several moments and then left wordlessly, taking the coffee service with 
her.
	Emma glanced at the far corner of the room for a time, wondering what had 
caught Gwen's fancy. She was some while realizing that it had been a typewriter.

• • •

The storm had taken new liberties with her dress, its cloth an oily sheath clinging 
to her legs when she walked. She'd remarked somewhere along the road to 
Llannewydd that she felt as if she were attired in a larger than normal condom. 
The image had clearly amused Gwen, although Emma had been forced to repeat it 
several times for the girl before she'd made herself heard above the clattering of 
the rain.
	No one had thus far devised an umbrella which was of much use from the 
waist down, she considered.
	Gwen looked like a wet cocker spaniel at present, having produced a somewhat 
inadequate umbrella to accompany her new wardrobe. She didn't appear to have 
relinquished her pinnie and skirt with much reluctance. Blue jeans hardly suited 
her, or perhaps they simply looked out of place on her. Emma allowed that she 
was used to regarding Gwen as an ambulatory Doulton figurine about the house.
	She considered Gwen through the corner of her eye, reviewing once more the 
convolution of argument that her housekeeper had wrought to be permitted to 
accompany her into the village. From time to time over the previous few days 
she'd imagined the spirit of John Quick muttering just beyond the scope of her 
hearing, commenting on her judgment. Wherever you are, John Quick, she thought 
acridly, you must be having serious misgivings about now.
	They'd stood for some time in the darkness of a scattering of stunted oaks 
beyond the car-park of the Red Lion, awaiting the arrival of the gray Vauxhall 
bearing its gray passenger. It had appeared nearly enough at the same time as it 
had on the previous evening, Ernst Gemmhardt striding mechanically into the pub 
and assuming his place behind the window. She had almost been able to make out 
the words he'd spoken as the serving girl had appeared beside him. A double of 
the good stuff, she thought now, suppressing a shiver. It would have gone down 
admirably.
 	"Are you certain you'd not like to go have yourself a drink in the Lion and wait 
for me," she asked Gwen for what she imagined with the third time in the last hour 
or so.
	The girl shook her head, smiling wanly. "No, ta," she replied.
	This is probably the most exciting thing you've done in months, she thought. 
Allowing you to do it is unquestionably the stupidest thing I've done in at least 
that long. She reminded herself that there was virtually no danger in what they 
were about to see to, that she required five minutes at best, and that the German's 
whiskey would occupy him for several hours.
	There was no light in the lee of the Poacher's Pocket amidst the dustbins and 
abandoned mattresses. The single lamp that had stained the refuse with dingy 
illumination an hour earlier had succumbed to a carefully aimed pebble. It 
appeared unlikely that anyone would notice its demise for several weeks at least. 
The smell of wet garbage, mildew and the rot of the sea swarmed like the vapors 
of an unseen malarial swamp as she picked her way carefully between a scattering 
of disintegrating cardboard boxes.
	"Could we not have brought a torch?" Gwen hissed, clearly disconcerted by 
the ill-defined shapes tumbling in the shadows about her.
	"There's something to be said for not being seen at this," she replied at length. 
She had surveyed the rear of the hotel prior to plunging it into darkness, counting 
her footsteps from the car-park to the emergency exit that lay partially concealed 
amidst the refuse. She was pleased to find that she was having little trouble 
retracing them now, despite not being able to see her own feet.
	Gwen walked like a drunken elephant, she thought angrily as the girl blundered 
into something, cursing audibly. She reminded herself that the rain would drown 
any noise either of them made. The heavy cadence of Gwen's footfalls and her 
frequent cries when she encountered something unexpected set her teeth on edge 
none the less.
	The emergency exit at the rear of the Poacher's Pocket was a ragged steel door 
that looked to have been cut from the hull of a scuttled fishing trawler a few 
decades earlier. She'd noticed that it had been fitted with a new lock rather more 
recently. The brass of the lock had been the only thing visible which hadn't been 
encrusted with rust, a green scale of corrosion or stalactites of salt driven in off the 
sea.
	The splendid thing about locks, she mused to herself, was that they allowed 
people to feel secure about the integrity of whatever their locks protected – 
whether or not they actually were. No one would consider the possibility of an 
intruder penetrating the rear door of the hotel, as it was kept locked. It was 
distinctly unlikely that their entrance through the door would be noticed.
	This one was a fairly good Yale pin-tumbler lock, she'd observed when she'd 
first encountered it. It was an agreeable sort of lock, in that it could be defeated 
without the use of specialized lock picks. John Quick had spent a long while 
teaching her the craft of picking locks, until she'd been able to walk through every 
one in his house in less time than it required most people to locate their keys. He'd 
also enjoined her at length to refrain from carrying the tools of her new skills 
about with her.
	The knife strapped to her thigh might earn her a good deal of trouble from the 
police, he'd maintained, but she could ultimately explain it away if she were 
pressed to. Recounting the incident which had prompted her to carry it would 
almost certainly suffice to shame the law into forgiving her this transgression. 
Lock picks were unmistakable and had but a single purpose. Possession of them 
was itself a crime.
	A pin-tumbler lock could be picked with a small screwdriver and a carefully 
bent safety pin, neither of which were illegal to carry about. She handed her 
umbrella to Gwen and crouched uncertainly before the door, finding its lock in the 
ruined steel surface with the tips of her fingers. John Quick had insisted that she 
learn to pick locks while she was standing, such that it would not be obvious to 
someone watching her what she was about. She allowed that no one would be 
watching her now.
	She slipped the end of a screwdriver into the barrel of the lock and turned it 
slightly, applying pressure to the pins within. One by one she pushed the lock pins 
up into their shafts with the tip of the safety pin, feeling the minute snap of each of 
them. The tension of the barrel, held by the screwdriver, kept them in place until 
the last one had been withdrawn. The barrel turned smoothly and the door swung 
uncertainly toward her.
	"Bloody hell," Gwen whispered. The whole performance had taken her no 
more than thirty seconds, which might even have impressed John Quick.
	She stepped through the partially opened door, accepting her umbrella, shaking 
the rain from it and finally folding it. Gwen followed her a moment later. The girl 
glanced uncertainly about the passage before them. It was lined with featureless, 
identical black doors, illuminated by a succession of obsequiously quaint lamps 
along its walls. The carpet was intended to look Persian, she decided.
	"What if someone notices us?" Gwen hissed, pulling the door to behind her.
	"Then we're staying in the hotel and we were caught in the rain," Emma 
replied. "No one will, though. The hotel is almost empty and no one bothers with 
the guests unless they make a nuisance of themselves."
	"It's very posh," Gwen mused.
	It looked like a dozen other hotels of her experience, she allowed, wondering if 
there was an unwritten specification for the sterility of inns across Europe.
	"How will we find his room, then?" Gwen asked, an excited edge to her voice. 
Emma smiled to herself, wondering if she'd sounded much the same on her first 
job with John Quick. That one had been rather tame in reflection as well, although 
she'd been desperately nervous at the time. Allowing Gwen to accompany her this 
evening had been a foolish choice none the less, she reminded herself once again.
	"He's in room 127," she said. The door beside her was room 155.
 	"How would you know that?"
	"I rang up and pretended to be Barbara Owen from the flower shop. I said I 
had flowers to deliver to Mister Gemmhardt, that they were from his wife in 
Germany. The lad on the phone was very helpful."
	"Perhaps he doesn't have a wife in Germany."
	She turned to face Gwen, who was smiling wickedly. "It doesn't bloody matter 
whether he does..." she began, before she realized that the girl had been having her 
on. Wordlessly she started down the passage. Upon reaching the door she sought 
she produced four polythene jewelers' gloves from her pocket, handing two to 
Gwen and struggling into her own.
	The door to room 127 was protected with another pin-tumbler lock. This one 
was still easier to pick, as it hadn't suffered the torment of the weather which had 
assailed the outer one. As she pushed her way into the darkened room beyond and 
felt about for the light switch, she considered that this had been the object of her 
greatest concern in entering the German's room. On one of her recent journeys to 
London with John Quick, the hotel they'd stayed in had proven to be fitted with 
electronic locks for all its doors. They'd opened only upon being presented with a 
magnetic card. John Quick had cursed them roundly and muttered something 
about the ending of an era.
	The room was an archetypal hotel suite, she decided, with two perfectly-made 
double beds, Danish modern furniture scarred at the edges by cigarette burns, a 
television facing one of the beds and several lamps which came on with the main 
room lights. The air smelled stagnant, as if no one save for the help had been in for 
hours. She stepped cautiously into the center of the room, seeking for somewhere 
that might hide a threat. The largest place of concealment in the room was a brass 
wastepaper basket beside the television, embossed with a hunting scene. It looked 
singularly unmenacing.
	At the far end of the room a sliding glass door divided the appointments of the 
hotel from the fury of the storm beyond it. She glanced at it for a moment, 
deciding that it would prove a useful exit should Ernst Gemmhardt return 
unexpectedly.
	Gwen followed her after a moment and pushed the door to behind them.
	"We'll get caught in here," Gwen whispered, looking uncertainly about the 
room.
	She smiled at the girl, who seemed unnaturally calm considering the 
unlikelihood of their situation.
	"We'll be gone presently," she assured Gwen, beginning to consider the 
appointments of the room.
	It would have been simple enough to have waited in the loo until Ernst 
Gemmhardt returned and shot him, or fixed the brakes on his hired car, or ended 
his life in any of a dozen other ways she'd been taught. She'd had a difficult time 
explaining to Gwen why she was reluctant to do so. As much as anything, she 
wanted to know at least what John Quick had known of him before he'd been 
killed. John Quick had clearly had a plan for doing him, and she'd come to 
appreciate that John Quick would not have merely waited in the loo and shot him.
	John Quick would have killed him in a way to make it seem that almost anyone 
else could have been responsible. As they'd trudged through the growing torrent 
of rain toward the village earlier, she'd spent some while trying to devise a way to 
kill him such that she could be seen on Aberteyrnas when his death occurred and 
he could be well away on the mainland. In order to accomplish it, she knew, she'd 
require somewhat more insight into his purpose on the island.
	There was more to it, she decided as she began to regard the room carefully. 
Teddy Barlow still stalked her imagination. Teddy Barlow had probably been 
prepared to kill her to safeguard this drugs dealer. While she appreciated that she 
thought little of his character just now, it seemed an odd role for MI6, John Quick's 
reservations about that organization not withstanding.
	"I still don't quite understand what I'm meant to be looking for," Gwen said. 
The girl seemed to have appreciated that it was no longer necessary to whisper.
	"It's difficult to say," she replied after a moment's thought. "When you go off 
travelling you take shirts and socks and a hairbrush and whatnot. We're looking 
for something that doesn't belong in that lot."
	Gwen seemed to consider this for a moment. "And it isn't all right to empty all 
his things on the floor?" she asked archly.
	"No," she said firmly.
	"Knickers," Gwen cursed. "I've always fancied doing that."
	They'd discussed the tactics to be used to search the German's room earlier. 
She did not want it known that they'd been there, and she'd instructed Gwen to see 
to it that everything she disturbed was returned to exactly where it had been. Gwen 
had likened it to reading her father's dirty magazines as a girl when her parents 
had been out for the evening, replacing them such that her transgressions would 
not be noticed.
	There was a clock on the bedside table. It was twelve minutes past seven. She 
decided that they'd leave at seventeen minutes past.
	The first odd thing about the room, she observed, was that it had a computer. A 
small notebook computer occupied the writing desk, along with a plastic box of 
diskettes. She opened the box and withdrew several. They were identical, each 
identified with a blue fountain pen on a yellow and white sticky label. Each bore 
two or three characters and nothing else. There were two square holes in each 
diskette, which meant that they were high-density storage disks. The holes were 
open – the disks couldn't be written to, but only read. They were repositories of 
existing information, rather than places to put things.
	A detailed search of Ernst Gemmhardt's computer might have proven 
decidedly enlightening, had there been time and had she been more attentive when 
John Quick had attempted to instruct her in the workings of the infuriating little 
machines. She considered it for a moment longer before abandoning it for more 
easily comprehended matters.
	His wastepaper basket was empty. There was nothing hidden beneath his bed, 
under his pillow or rolled up in his clothes. She could find no trace of a gun, which 
she decided was distantly curious. Someone in his profession would fancy a 
weapon, and while it was likely that he'd carry his gun about with him, there 
should be spare cartridges and the tools to clean it with somewhere amongst his 
things.
	The wall facing the bed looked unnaturally bare for an hotel room, she 
decided. She regarded it for a moment before she noticed that it bore a picture 
hook, but no picture. She smiled at this – the vapid oil paintings which typically 
graced rooms like this one had usually irritated her, but she'd never had to look at 
one long enough to make removing it worth the bother. The one from this room 
had clearly troubled Ernst Gemmhardt sufficiently for him to dispose of it. 
Presumably it languished in the closet now.
	There was something else missing, she realized. The room contained no 
suitcases. He'd come, emptied them into the bureau drawers and then perhaps 
removed them to the boot of his car to keep them out of his way. Unless he was 
unusually meticulous, it suggested that he'd intended to remain on Aberteyrnas for 
some while, and that he didn't anticipate having to leave in a hurry.
	"If this bloke's a drugs smuggler, shouldn't there be drugs about?" Gwen 
asked. The girl seemed to have become interested in a label affixed to the side of 
the telly that listed the programs available on satellite television, Emma noticed.
	"It's my understanding that they do deals for shiploads of it... might be a bit 
obvious if he had it on him."
	"I shouldn't think so," Gwen mused, laughter in her voice. "No one on 
Aberteyrnas would be sober enough to notice something like that... a foreign 
fellow with a shipload of drugs in his pockets."
	"Perhaps he's hidden it in his other pair of shoes," she offered.
	She smiled, glancing at the clock. By her schedule they had thirty seconds left 
to search the room, but the enterprise was beginning to acquire an apprehension of 
fruitlessness. It was as if the room had been deliberately affected to say nothing, 
she considered. There were no books, no newspapers, nothing at all of the man 
save for the computer. It was almost as if...
	Her consideration was interrupted by the mechanical slithering of the glass 
door at the far end of the room. A breath of cold air touched her cheek. She felt 
herself stiffen as she turned to face its source. The darkness beyond the hotel 
swirled and coalesced into a figure, merging with the diffused light of the room. 
Teddy Barlow appeared, one hand poised before him, his Beretta pointed at her 
heart.
	She glanced at the door through which they'd entered, impossibly far away 
now. She noticed Gwen, the girl's face suddenly bloodless. Her heart thundered in 
her chest, the barrel of the gun suddenly hypnotic, an exotic snake about to fill her 
veins with its venom.
	He gestured minutely with the gun as he slid the door closed behind him. "It's 
loaded this time, love," he said evenly. "I see you've brought the help with you as 
well. That's most awfully obliging."
	He was closer to Gwen than he was to her. She watched the girl's jaw tighten, 
saw Gwen begin to take a step forward. Teddy Barlow's gun never left her, but his 
free arm moved with a speed that belied his size. He stepped quickly to Gwen, 
grasped the front of her cardigan and lifted her from the floor. Gwen managed a 
single, choked cry before he tossed her effortlessly across the room. She struck the 
far wall and crumpled to the carpet, contorted awkwardly.
	"You bastard," she began. He gestured at her with the gun to be still, his face a 
mask of controlled anger.
	"It doesn't matter, love," he growled. "In a minute or so I'm very likely going 
to put a bullet through her. And you, I should think."
	"Perhaps I should have killed you this morning," she said, conscious of the 
ragged edge to his voice.
	"Yes, perhaps you should have done," he agreed. "The thing is, you didn't, 
because John Quick didn't teach you to, and you only know how to do what 
you've been told. Now you're going to do what I tell you."
	"You can put that gun up your arse and blow your brains out," she said, 
deciding that the insult had sounded disappointingly hollow.
	He sighed and glanced away from her for a moment. The gesture had been 
calculated, she knew, a feigned moment of weakness to see if she'd react to him.
	"To begin with, take off the knife and chuck it on the bed," he instructed. 
When she didn't move to obey him he gestured at the unconscious form of Gwen. 
"Take off the bloody knife and chuck it on the bed or I'll kill her."
	He seemed willing to allow her a moment to consider whether he'd make good 
on his threat. He was angry beyond whatever humiliation and inconvenience she'd 
put him to that morning, she realized. He looked like someone who'd been set 
upon by a gang of toughs and only just escaped with his life. Slowly, not 
permitting her eyes to leave his, she pulled her skirt up, revealing the knife.
	He wanted her to unstrap the sheath from her thigh, she knew, such that the 
blade would remain unexposed. She decided that she'd pretend to misunderstand 
him. She withdrew the knife quickly, before he had the opportunity to object, and 
she tossed it at the nearer of the two beds. He seemed to become more angry still, 
although she watched his shoulders slump minutely.
	Had he been genuinely afraid of her knife, armed as he was, she wondered 
fleetingly.
	"Now, love," he began, the pitch of his voice having risen fractionally. "You 
were telling me tales this morning. You've decided to finish off John Quick's last 
job, have a go at poor Ernst Gemmhardt. It won't do, love... I told you this 
morning that we don't want anything to happen to Herr Gemmhardt. I need to 
know who you're working for."
	"Sod off," she spat.
	His eyes blazed with rage for an instant. She smiled thinly at him. He moved a 
pace closer to her, returning her smile. She never saw his arm tense, his hand 
contort into a fist until he buried it in her belly. For a moment the shock of being 
struck was more crippling than the pain. She felt herself stagger backward. His 
second blow caught the side of her face, staining the room about her with colors 
that could never have been. The dark red carpet of the floor lunged up to embrace 
her.
	He reached down and grasped the front of her dress, wrenching her to her feet. 
She was conscious of the taste of blood in her mouth, the certainty that she would 
lose control of her stomach in a moment and so enrage him to the point of killing 
her. He shook her for a moment, as a child might have done with a malfunctioning 
toy.
	"Listen to me, you bloody little cunt," he snarled through clenched teeth. His 
words seemed somehow remote, requiring an effort of will to make sense of. 
"You're going to tell me who hired John Quick to kill Ernst Gemmhardt. Do you 
understand?" He shook her again, and then released her. She felt herself stagger 
back, uncertain that her legs would deign to support her.
	He stepped across the room to the bed and retrieved her knife. He was several 
seconds managing to find it with one hand while he kept his attention fixed on her. 
She might have made something of his momentary distraction had the blackness at 
the edges of her vision not been threatening to engulf her completely.
	"I'm going to use this," he continued, waving the knife in her direction. She 
said nothing, the knife refusing to swim into focus for her. "I think I shall begin 
with the hired help."
	She glanced over at Gwen, realizing as she did that it had been a mistake. He 
struck her across her face again, his hand made harder still by the hilt of her knife 
clenched in it. She dropped to her knees, a ropy trail of spit and blood spilling onto 
the carpet before her. He pushed her onto her back with his foot.
	"I'm going to wake her up and then I'm going to cut her open," he said. "You 
can watch, so you'll know what to expect when it's your turn. I'm told it's rather 
messy. I've not actually had the pleasure until now."
	She stared at him, willing herself to be calm, to seize the myriad fragments of 
her wits. His words had been chosen to frighten her, she knew. He would have 
seen the concern in her face when she'd looked over at Gwen. She could imagine 
John Quick's voice urging her to find an advantage over him, to observe him.
	Had John Quick ever stood facing a gun like this, she wondered desperately. It 
seemed unlikely. He'd have had more sense than she'd exhibited this night. She 
struggled to stand upright.
	When she hadn't spoken for what she concluded was the extent of his patience, 
he glanced about the room, his attention fixing for a moment on the clock on one 
of the bedside tables. Her eyes refused to resolve it sufficiently to make out the 
time, but perhaps he too appreciated the eventual return of Ernst Gemmhardt. It 
was unlikely that the German might burst into the room and distract him. It was of 
little consequence – the proper occupant of the hotel suite had been in the Red 
Lion for less than half an hour, she reminded herself. He'd be safely away for 
some time to come.
	"I'll quite enjoy killing you, you know," he said, his tone almost 
conversational.
	"Then perhaps you should be about it," she spat, her words slurred by a mouth 
thick with blood. "When you're done you can ask about who's hired me and get 
the same answer you'll get from John Quick."
	His newly acquired composure appeared to crumble for an instant, this clearly 
not having been the response he might have hoped for.
	"You have no idea how much I've detested the last two years, do you?" he 
demanded. "Living out here on this filthy rock, digging in the muck... being with 
you."
	"Why don't you shoot me, Mister Barlow?" she taunted him. It was a 
dangerous line of conversation. She allowed that her judgment at the moment was 
not as refined as it might have been, but the simmering fury in his voice had 
sounded convincingly genuine.
	He seemed to consider the gun in his hand, the knife that he still held. After 
several moments he appeared to come to a conclusion of a sort. "Do you know 
what I've really loathed about this place?" he asked.
	"Not being able to order Perrier in the Lion without everyone thinking you're a 
poof?" she suggested. The effort of speaking was growing painful.
	He shook his head, clearly aware that she sought to torment him. "I've really 
come to dislike going to bed with you, love," he continued. "I really can't stand all 
the bother of it... it's not what a woman's for at all, you know."
	It was an unexpected slight. Perhaps it had been something else crafted to 
unbalance her. The room seemed to accept the suggestion as an opportunity to 
redouble its efforts at pirouetting about her, threatening to topple her once more to 
the blackness of the floor.
	"And what would a woman be for then, Mister Barlow?" she asked, realizing 
that she was clearly expected to. At other times she might have forced him to 
continue his contrived dialog by himself, but she doubted she'd be on her feet long 
enough to stare him down. A studied air of defiance would be difficult to maintain 
if she were flat on her face.
	He smiled, perhaps pleased with himself. "I've thought for some while that 
before I left this place I'd like to screw you properly, but I never imagined I'd 
have the chance. Bend over the bed." He gestured at one of the beds with her 
knife.
	She stared at him for a moment. "I should prefer to be dead first," she said, 
hearing the last scraps of anger in her voice.
	He placed the knife on the bed behind himself and stepped toward her. She saw 
his fist this time, knew what he intended in the heartbeat before he stuck her belly 
once more. She had no strength left to save herself. He caught her by her arm as 
she began to fall, twisting her until she screamed, certain that he'd torn it from her 
shoulder. He lifted her effortlessly and pushed her across the other bed.
	"It isn't rape, love," he said. "Think of it as a few more minutes of life for you 
and the help over there." She felt him lift the hem of her dress, heard the snap of 
his belt and the uneven rasp of the zip of his trousers. He grasped her knickers and 
tore them from her. She struggled fitfully, knowing that it was pointless, deciding 
that in a moment she'd lose her senses entirely and he'd be welcome to do with 
her as he pleased. The pain of his entering her was sharp and tearing, impeccably 
detailed and luminous above the dull, sickening ache of her belly and the swelling 
of her face. She was startled by the sudden rage she felt, convinced that she'd been 
beyond it.
	She was uncertain how long he was behind her, the feel of him within her 
having grown indistinct and substanceless. She'd felt herself grow wet, thinking 
distantly that it was a primitive betrayal of her by a body which should have 
known better. She heard something move in the far distance of the room, heard 
him grunt in a way she might not have associated with his climax, and then felt 
him withdraw suddenly from her. It would be back to harsh language and death 
threats in a moment, she thought as she felt the room shudder with the weight of a 
body collapsing on the floor.
	She struggled to turn her head, to see what was behind her.
	"Are you all right, ma'am?" Gwen asked.
	She rolled over on the bed, gasping at a spear of pain through her guts as she 
did. Gwen swam indistinctly in her vision. The girl was holding the ornate brass 
wastepaper basket that she'd noticed when they'd first entered the room. Teddy 
Barlow, she realized an instant later, was unconscious at her feet.
	"Ma'am?" Gwen insisted.
	She nodded her head uncertainly.
	Gwen regarded her for a moment before she seemed to notice that she was still 
holding the instrument of her assault on Teddy Barlow. She returned it to the floor 
as if she'd been caught at last with one of her father's dirty magazines. Gwen 
reached out a hand to Emma, who was some while appreciating that it was 
intended to help her to her feet.
	She stared at the still figure of Teddy Barlow for a time before she noticed the 
Beretta on the floor beside him. Ignoring the pain that seemed to clutch at her, she 
crouched down and retrieved it. She pushed the barrel catch off safety, pulled the 
slide back to chamber a cartridge and leveled the tiny pistol at his head.
	The prospect of seeing his face evaporate into a cloud of blood and shattered 
bone, as she'd watched others do in the remote voyeur's secret of a rifle scope, 
seemed impossibly alluring, a thing to be done in the fragment of a second of a 
gunshot and treasured thereafter. It would not be accompanied by the pangs of 
doubt and self-reproach that she'd known after some of her earlier killings, she 
was certain. The gun felt warm and sensual in her hand.
	Gwen grasped her wrist, pulling it upward until the Beretta faced the glass 
doors at the far end of the room. She turned to face the girl, meeting her gaze, 
uncertain why she'd been distracted.
	"I don't think you really want to do that, ma'am," Gwen said evenly. The girl 
took the gun from her, regarding it for a moment. She wanted to warn Gwen to 
eject the unused round, to put the barrel catch back on. John Quick would have 
given her a good ragging-out for handling a gun thus. She opened her mouth to 
speak and found that she could not.
	Gwen placed the hilt of her knife in her hand, perhaps as a less vicious 
substitute for the confiscated pistol, and dropped the gun on the bed. She smiled 
and returned the knife to its sheath.
	"Will you be able to walk, ma'am?" Gwen asked her anxiously.
	She nodded at length, glancing once more at the figure of Teddy Barlow. He 
seemed unconscious, but perhaps Gwen had stuck him sufficiently hard to have 
killed him. It was a pleasing thought.
	Gwen led her out through the glass doors of the room into the storm, clearly 
wishing to be gone from the hotel as quickly as possible. She appreciated that she 
wasn't in a fit state to be seen in the lobby, and would no longer be idly mistaken 
for one of the guests. The skies had grown darker, anthracite veined with ebony 
clouds, pouring down the gray acid of the storm. She walked with her face as 
upturned as she could manage, allowing the rain to massage the growing 
numbness of her cheek. Each step was distantly painful.
	They returned to the trees beyond the car-park of the Red Lion. Ernst 
Gemmhardt's car was where she'd seen it last, the gray-suited man indistinct 
behind the window of the pub. Gwen left her to use the telephone inside to 
summon a taxi. It was some while in coming, and she found herself staring into 
the pub as someone starving might have watched through a window at a feast. 
How few days had it been, she thought achingly, when finding the coins to pay for 
another drink had been the most biting concern of her existence.

• • •

She removed her dress gingerly. Gwen had fetched her Paracetamol for her pain 
and black coffee for her shattered wits. Both seemed to have had an affect on her. 
She regarded herself in the bathroom mirror, distantly worried over what she 
might find herself looking at.
	Her face was not as ugly as it felt. There was little visible bruising and she 
experimented with her hair for a moment to hide it. She smiled grimly at her own 
vanity, magnifying the ache that suffused her cheek and jaw. He'd not loosened 
any teeth, she decided, feeling about the inside of her mouth with her tongue. She 
could still taste her own blood.
	She stepped back from the mirror until she could see the angry blue and black 
of her belly. All Gwen's ministrations notwithstanding, it still ached when she 
moved. She no longer felt as if she would be sick, which she decided was a mercy. 
She half-recalled demanding that the taxi stop somewhere along the road out of 
Llannewydd so she could stagger out into the rain and throw up. Gwen had stood 
beside her, speaking in words she'd not been able to understand. The taxi driver 
had no doubt thought her a terrible drunk.
	Had she actually been about to kill Teddy Barlow, she wondered, reminded of 
a previously undiscovered fragment of the evening. She glanced at her hand, 
holding an imaginary Beretta now. His fellow employees of her majesty's 
government would have sought her for the remainder of her days had she pulled 
the trigger of that gun. It seemed unlikely that Gwen appreciated what she'd 
prevented.
	She folded her dress mechanically, thinking as she did that there was little 
point in it. It was stained with her blood and vomit and was unlikely ever to be 
clean enough to wear again. She placed it on a chair beside the mirror, her body 
aching with the effort of movement. She regarded the broken, spoiled woman in 
the mirror for a moment.
	Tell me that if he was on the floor now, and the pistol was in your hand... with 
all your wits about you, such as they are... tell me that you'd not shoot him just the 
same. She stared at the reflection of her face for a moment longer, knowing full 
well its reply.
	She unbuckled the knife from her thigh and placed it atop her dress. She turned 
her attention at last to the bathtub behind her, switching on the shower and turning 
the heat up as high as it would go. The muted thunder of its pump began to suffuse 
the room as a jet of steam and water spit from it and scattered across the floor of 
the tub. With a painful economy of movement she maneuvered herself beneath it.
	She imagined the water passing through her rather than across her bruised 
flesh, as if she'd become as insubstantial as the steam that was engulfing the 
bathroom. She found a cake of soap and began to wash herself. She'd become 
substanceless over the previous week, the final chip of her being having been 
struck from her in Ernst Gemmhardt's hotel room and ground to powder under 
Teddy Barlow's heel.
	She was far more destitute than she'd been when she'd first come to 
Aberteyrnas, she knew. She'd once fancied that she'd become a woman on this 
island, but it had all been play-acting choreographed by men from the mainland, 
most of whom she'd never seen.
	The beaches were barren of tourists, and it hardly mattered, for she was too old 
now to interest the lads who came across on holiday. In her ten years she'd only 
had one lover who'd been with her for more than a week, and he'd been a pitiless, 
mocking illusion. If she was permitted to remain on the island there would be no 
one to follow him unless she hired another gardener.
	She'd described herself as a whore when she'd spoken with Doctor McKie the 
day before, and on occasion she'd dressed as one for John Quick's schemes. What 
a wretched whore she would be, having to hire someone to sleep with her. She 
heard the cake of soap strike the floor of the tub, felt a new shriek of pain as her 
belly convulsed, wracked with sobbing.
	Her legs betrayed her and she dropped to her knees, the shower pummeling her 
back. The crack of bone against the enameled iron of the tub seemed an 
insubstantial injury, one final protest of a body ill-used. She cried out with all the 
strength left to her, the room reverberating with her rage, and then with her 
hopelessness, until she hardly had the strength left to cry. She knelt huddled on the 
floor of the bathtub until the shower overheated and switched off, drenching her 
with icy water. She was a long while finding the will to get to her feet and silence 
it.








Own a printed, bound copy of this book. 

You can order on line at http://www.StevenWilliamRimmer.com – click on SHOP – or 
call our toll-free order desk at 1-800-263-1138. 





4


Tuesday, May 14, 1991
Near Besançon, France

The girl had been staring through the rifle's scope for several minutes now, 
apparently at the same image. He regarded her absently, an immobile bit of 
statuary clutched in the open fist of rock he shared with her on the hillside. Before 
them a primordial valley sprawled in vacant contentment, a huge dog awaiting 
someone to scratch its belly. A single opulent building scarred the flesh of leaves 
in the distance, protruding like a splintered bone.
	I shouldn't mind a place like that, he thought. It would have cost millions to 
construct, and more than he'd made in his best year just to maintain. He'd 
considered it in detail through the scope's optics earlier that morning, as Emma 
was doing now. There was a wide terrace perched at the edge of the opposite 
hillside leading from a courtyard of the house. Two women had spent most of the 
morning with scrub brushes and buckets polishing its stones.
	The girl would be considering the face of its owner now. He'd appeared half an 
hour earlier. Dismissing the chars, he'd descended into a wicker throne beneath a 
gaudy cafe umbrella bedecked with emblems of Martini and Rossi.
	"Well then, woman," he said evenly "What do you think?"
	The girl looked away from the gun, turning to face him. Her expression 
suggested that she'd become quite content to reside in the magnified eternity of 
the terrace across the valley, and she resented his insistence that she return to this 
decidedly less comfortable location. She lay the rifle carefully on the plastic case 
at her feet.
	"I think we might sit here for another hour or so and let him die of natural 
causes, John Quick," she replied archly. "He looks to be at least a hundred."
	He smiled. "He's eighty-two, in fact. The pity of it is that he's unlikely to die 
conveniently any time soon. He has a house full of bodyguards, he walks five 
miles every morning and he works out in a private gymnasium somewhere in that 
castle of his." He gestured absently at the great house in the distance.
	"Who is he, then?" she asked. She turned to consider the valley once more.
	"André Diderot," he replied.
	The girl continued to regard the carpet of trees before them. When she next 
spoke her voice had become redolent with the Welsh of her ancestors, something 
he'd long since decided she chose to affect when she became impatient with his 
schemes. "Right then," she said. "Why's this one to snuff it?"
	He opened a scuffed leather hold-all at his feet and removed a bundle of rags 
from it. At the sound of the zip she turned to face him. He placed the object on a 
stone between them and indicated that she was to deal with it. She glanced 
uncertainly at him for a moment before she knelt and unwrapped the thing. 
	"What would you make of that?" he asked.
	The rifle was a singularly ugly weapon, he thought as he watched her lift it 
from its shabby garments and examine it. It was squat, its barrel a vestigial organ 
protruding an inch or two from its body. It was a little under two feet long, almost 
weightless. It could spit eight-hundred rounds of nine-millimeter ammunition per 
minute, emptying its magazine in seconds. Weapons like it had seemed overly 
fond of emptying their magazines into crowds of people of late.
	"I should say it's some sort of gun," she replied at length, grinning at him. 
"You weren't thinking I'd do the old sod across the valley with this, were you?"
	"No, I was thinking you'd do the old sod across the valley because of that, 
actually."
	Her smile faded and she returned her attention to the gun. "Has he 
done something naughty with it, then?"
	He turned his attention from her, gazing at the distant horizon. "That's a 
Heckler and Koch MP5 assault rifle. It's a filthy thing... it's only really good for 
killing a lot of people close up. He has several thousand of them somewhere 
around here."
	"Oh, aye?" she said quietly, all trace of mirth suddenly gone from her voice.
	"When you were having a look at him did you notice the table with the 
umbrella?"
	"Aye."
	"And did you notice anything on the table?"
	She was silent for a moment, clearly trying to recall the fragments of the old 
man's terrace she'd seen through the scope. "It was odd, actually," she mused at 
length. "He had a little wooden hammer for cracking walnuts, but no walnuts to 
crack with it."
	"It's a gavel," he said, pleased that she'd observed what he'd intended. Perhaps 
it wasn't as remarkable as it seemed, he allowed. André Diderot prepared himself 
for mornings like this one by clearing his table of everything that might distract 
him. The gavel was his only requirement.
	"Do you mean as a judge would use?"
	"Rather more as an auctioneer would use," he corrected her. "Any time now, 
men will begin to join Mister Diderot on his terrace... one of his servants should 
begin carrying chairs out soon. He's going to auction a lot of a thousand of those 
today." He indicated the gun in her hand once more.
	She returned the rifle to its bed of rags, her features tinged with distaste. 
	"He's an arms dealer, then?" she asked, her tone suggesting that he need not 
have answered her question.
	He considered this. "To call André Diderot merely an arms dealer would be 
akin to calling John Major merely a chinless, incompetent idiot, rather than the 
instrument of the final destruction of the British empire." He smiled to himself, 
pleased with the analogy. "Mister Diderot's been at it longer than anyone's 
bothered to keep records of such things. He's supplied the IRA, Al-Fatah, 
Muhammad Abbas, Shining Path, Baader-Meinhof... and everyone else with a 
nasty disposition."
	She returned his smile coldly. He was beginning to grow predictable, he 
allowed, taking the mickey out of the government. The prime minister was, like 
the old man in the rifle scope, an obvious target.
	"I should think this would be a grand time to arrest him, with all those guns 
about," she offered. "Could we not just ring the police?"
	"There's nothing to arrest him for," he replied. "He's rather clever. The guns 
are buried in a cave in these hills, or sunk at the bottom of a lake. The Police 
Nationale estimates that he has fifty to a hundred thousand guns of one sort or 
another scattered about, and perhaps five or ten million rounds of ammunition. As 
nearly as anyone can tell, it's all in his head. Whoever wins today's auction gets a 
hand-drawn map and a shovel."
	"I see," she mused. "And if someone puts a bullet through his head he'll be 
likely to forget about all that lot."
	"Likely to," he agreed.
	He turned to consider the distant house. The figure of André Diderot was a tiny 
wooden doll in a toy chair, immobile, featureless, innocent. It was an effort of will 
to project the pages of details which had appeared in the wire cage below his FAX 
machine a month earlier into the man.
	He'd not had occasion to fire an assault rifle until the Heckler and Koch had 
arrived a few days after he'd FAXed his acceptance of the job. In its three seconds 
of howling rage it had cut several fairly substantial trees in half, obliterated the 
wooden targets he'd arranged and very nearly deafened him. The thing had been 
all but uncontrollable as he'd held it. It had been disturbingly easy to imagine its 
effect on living flesh.
	At least a dozen MP5s had been sent by Diderot to prospective customers. The 
French police had intercepted one of them. This one, he appreciated. It had been 
accompanied by a handwritten card with a date on it, the occasion of one of the 
weapons auctions. Legend had it that the Police Nationale and the Sûreté before 
them had sought after such a card for well over two decades.
	When he next turned to face her, the girl met his gaze for a moment, 
her eyes suddenly black and featureless. "Are you certain you'd not like to 
do this one yourself?" she asked softly. "I fancy it's rather important."
	He was a moment considering whether she was having him on once more, 
deciding at length that she was serious. "No," he answered her.
	She retrieved the sniper's rifle from where she'd lain it at her feet. Wordlessly 
she turned from him and brought the scope to her eye once more.
	He considered as he watched her that he'd once imagined this to be the rifle 
which would regain for him the mastery he had once commanded over bullets and 
targets. It was based on a PSG1 sniper's rifle, but Gaston Lefreuc, the Belgian 
gunsmith who'd built it for him, had modified it almost beyond recognition. Its 
stock was molded polycarbonate, enlarged from the original design and hollowed 
to accept the circuitry which guided it. Its cumbersome tripod had been removed. 
Its scope danced with pinpricks of light, its targeting handled by a laser.
	Held without its tripod, the PSG1 was accurate to about six-hundred meters. 
Gaston Lefreuc had added perhaps another two-hundred, and made it workable at 
night and in adverse conditions. Emma had given it several hundred meters more.
	He'd collected the rifle from Lefreuc a week earlier. On the following morning 
he'd taken Emma into the hills to shoot with it. By tea time she'd destroyed most 
of his expectations of the new gun.
	He smiled at this now, knowing the girl was engrossed in contemplating her 
target and would not ask him what was so amusing him. Two days earlier he'd 
invited Gaston Lefreuc to come and see what his creation was truly capable of. 
He'd arranged ten playing cards on bamboo sticks and they'd trudged back for 
eight-hundred meters. Lafreuc had been distantly annoyed by the exercise, the 
squat, aging man clearly having some difficulty negotiating the underbrush as 
they'd walked.
	"I'm good, man, but I'm not God," he'd exclaimed. "At this distance, the shells 
they will begin to tumble, to lose velocity... the breeze will carry them... she'll be 
very lucky indeed to hit one of the targets." He'd paused for a moment, glancing 
about them to assure himself that the girl was out of earshot. "That thing took me 
almost a year to build, man. Are you sure you want to let her use it?"
	She'd hit all ten of the targets. Eight had been within a few millimeters of their 
centers. Lefreuc had questioned her anxiously about how she'd managed the feat, 
had she used the laser sighting system, how much compensation had she 
programmed into the gun for the wind and such. She'd told him very little, merely 
complimenting him on his handiwork.
	It seemed unlikely, he considered now, that she truly remembered how she'd 
managed the shots. Clearly she knew how bullets tumbled and how they were 
affected by perturbations of air mass and such in their flights, but he'd frequently 
wondered if she was aware that she knew. Did she perform the intricate 
calculations involved as she peered through the scope, he wondered, or did she 
understand them intuitively, transcending the dialog between herself and the rifle.
	Gaston Lefreuc had been in a particularly black mood as they'd collected the 
targets and packed the rifle in its elaborate plastic case. He'd built state of the art 
software into the stock of his creation and he'd seen it improved upon by a girl 
who was young enough to be his granddaughter.
	"The first of his mates has arrived," the girl said suddenly now, disturbing his 
reverie. "When should I do him?"
	"The police asked that we wait 'til the whole lot's there. They think it will 
scare the crap out of them, having Diderot shot right in the middle of them all."
	"I should think it will worry Mister Diderot as well," she said evenly. He 
glanced at her once more, but she was still peering through the rifle scope, 
oblivious to that of the world which it could not contain.




Wednesday, October 7, 1992
Aberteyrnas

Dafydd pushed another pint glass toward her, driving a packet of crisps before it. 
The glass rattled softly over the weathered, uneven surface of the bar, dislodging 
an avalanche of foam. The gesture was practiced, having been performed 
countless times in the eternity of the old man's life.
	"Ta," she said mechanically, dropping two pound coins on the bar beside her 
glass. Dafydd accepted the money and turned to the till behind her.
	"We've sarnies and sausage and chips if you're hungry, miss," he muttered 
into the mirror behind the bar. "You needn't survive entirely on crisps."
	She forced herself to smile, knowing that he was regarding her in the mirror. 
"No, ta, this will be fine." She tore open the crisp packet with little enthusiasm. 
The crisps at the Red Lion were usually stale, but the various pub lunches which 
might be conjured by dark incantation from its dusky kitchens were will-nigh 
antediluvian.
	John Quick had shared her trust in packaged food, she'd come to appreciate. 
He'd maintained that he was more comfortable eating hygienic, anonymous rat 
droppings in hermetically sealed packets than he was with local rat droppings fried 
in rancid month-old pig fat. She recalled being quite taken by the image, and not 
eating much beyond Gwen's cooking for several weeks after he'd mentioned it.
	The clatter of the cash drawer of Dafydd's till opening rattled like empty, 
drunken laughter through the cavernous room of the pub. Aside from the barman 
she was its sole occupant. It was early yet – Dafydd's expression had said as much 
when she'd appeared at his door an hour earlier. The ritual of glass polishing and 
scavenging a few quid from the bandit machines had not yet been undertaken, she 
decided.
	"Are you feeling all right, miss?" Dafydd asked woodenly, his back still 
toward her. "You seem a bit pale."
	"It's kind of you to ask," she replied, considering the glass before her. "I 
imagine it's just the weather."
	That, and perhaps a few well-placed blows to her guts, she allowed. She'd 
awoken feeling like death a few hours earlier. The nascent bruises of the previous 
night had become living creatures, their teeth sunk deep into her flesh. Teddy 
Barlow had done agreeably little damage to her face, she'd considered as she'd 
regarded herself in the bathroom mirror, but he'd turned her belly into a living 
canvas of macabre surrealist art.
	There would be a reckoning with him, she'd promised herself as she'd 
descended for breakfast. It was beyond her to consider the nature of it, save that it 
would be final. As she'd dressed to leave the house she'd encountered the Glock 
in its traditional location in the drawer with her knickers. She'd known in the 
moments she'd allowed herself to hold the gun and imagine him before it that it 
would likely not be the instrument of her vengeance. The day had begun on a 
disappointing note.
	Gwen had been in a restrained mood, clearly titillated by the danger they'd 
shared the previous night. Perhaps, Emma considered now, the girl had merely 
been grateful not to have been the recipient of Teddy Barlow's rage. Having been 
hurled across the hotel room did not seem to have unduly distressed Gwen.
	She'd felt herself grow unaccountably furious with Gwen as they'd shared 
coffee that morning. The girl hadn't appreciated what had nearly befallen them 
both, hadn't been conscious to hear what Teddy Barlow had intended for them, 
she'd reminded herself. Gwen had still thought the previous night's encounter 
some manner of row with her lad, to be settled over drinks when her temper had 
cooled. After five or ten minutes of Gwen chattering about what they might do 
next in the matter of Teddy Barlow and Ernst Gemmhardt, she'd risen from the 
breakfast table and untied her robe, letting it fall open to reveal the extent of her 
bruises. Gwen had grown silent in mid-sentence, her face suddenly featureless and 
immutable. Emma had turned and left the room, certain that if she'd spoken she'd 
have been obliged to apologize for it later.
	As she'd been preparing to leave the house Gwen had approached her, very 
much more subdued. It had been a rather crude gesture, she'd appreciated as she'd 
regarded the melted, dissolute features of the girl in the tepid light of the main 
hall. Perhaps it had been the sort of thing John Quick might have done in such a 
circumstance. He'd certainly shown her a considerable degree of ugliness when 
he'd introduced her to his trade.
	For the first job she'd been permitted to accompany him on he'd given her a 
spare rifle scope to peer through, to watch the man he'd been hired to kill. She 
could no longer recall the man's face, although it had been impossibly detailed in 
the flat, erratic view of the scope. She could only recall the moment when John 
Quick's bullet had blown most of it away, turning the man's brains into a faint red 
cloud.
	It would have done Gwen a measure of good to have seen something like that, 
she'd decided coldly as she'd faced the girl. She recalled having a notion of John 
Quick's profession as being somehow darkly romantic and adventurous when first 
she'd learned of it. Gwen clearly still harbored such thoughts.
	Gwen had seemed disgruntled that she was to be left behind at the house that 
morning. The girl had inquired where she was off to, what she'd hoped to find in 
the icy storm that was still bearing down on Aberteyrnas. She'd replied that she'd 
hoped to find a reason for killing Ernst Gemmhardt, and then she'd stepped 
through the front door before Gwen could inquire what she'd meant.
	Gwen could not possibly have understood it, she considered now. She was 
quite certain she herself did not.
	When she'd been dressing – when she'd been searching about her bedroom for 
a dress that wouldn't anger her tormented flesh any further – she'd encountered a 
set of clothes she'd never worn. It was a gypsy's costume, although in reflection 
not a particularly convincing one. It had been a fragment in one of John Quick's 
schemes, although ultimately for a job he'd declined. It remained in her wardrobe, 
shrouded in plastic like a museum exhibit.
 	She'd been a long while appreciating why the dress had troubled her as she'd 
stepped into the storm and begun the footsore trudge to Llannewydd. It had been a 
reflection of one of the facets of her relationship with John Quick that she'd been 
comfortable not to consider when he'd been alive. John Quick had turned down 
more jobs than he'd accepted, and it was only in the previous year or so that he'd 
even begun to explain why he'd done so.
	She glanced over at the pool table in the far corner of the pub, now lifeless and 
disused. It was something they'd shared, however distantly. They'd shared other 
things, more esoteric things. They'd shared guns and knives and venomous little 
secrets they'd dared not even reveal to each other. He'd given her all those things. 
He'd taught her to use the tools for killing people, but he'd never once sought to 
school her. It had seemed to her that he'd been prepared for her to learn the craft 
he was offering her or not solely by observing him at his labors.
	She'd rarely asked him to explain the lethal machines he'd introduced her to, 
and on those few occasions when she had his instructions had been halting and 
very nearly incoherent. He'd had less of the pedagogue about him than anyone 
else she could imagine.
	When at last she'd chosen to inquire about the jobs that he'd declined – that 
he'd declined on both their behalfs, it had seemed at the time – he'd ultimately 
failed to explain himself in terms she'd been able to make much sense of. She 
regarded her pint before her now, allowing herself a thin smile. He'd not found a 
suitable lesson to illustrate that portion of the craft.
	But I do understand, John Quick, she thought blackly. I always did, you see. 
There are jobs which should be declined, people who don't deserve a bullet and 
oblivion. Bloody hell, I wish you were here to tell me if I'm in the middle of one 
of them.
	She allowed herself a long draught of her pint. Her head swam pleasingly. In 
other circumstances she might have enjoyed getting somewhat pissed and 
staggering back to the house along the beach. In a moment she would be obliged 
to open her packet of arid, leathery crisps and consume enough of them to displace 
the alcohol. In a moment...
	There was a muted, graying peculiarity shrouding Aberteyrnas. It had swollen 
in her awareness far more acutely than the bruises that throbbed indistinctly 
beneath her dress. It had been born of monstrous parents, a drugs dealer and the 
man from MI6 who seemed charged with defending him. It glowered at her now 
from the damp, moldering salt air beyond the rain-streaked windows of the Red 
Lion.
	She had begun her morning in Llannewydd seeking for traces of Teddy 
Barlow. The woman at the chemist in the high street recalled him, thinking that 
he'd looked unwell. He'd been asking for something for a headache. He'd also 
appeared at a cafe he frequented. The girl who'd served him had mentioned that 
he'd been in a nasty mood. From there he'd gone on to less frequent haunts, she 
considered now.
	Aberteyrnas lacked a bridge to the mainland. She'd wondered at this when 
she'd had the leisure to consider such things, and she'd ultimately decided that the 
inhabitants of the island desired it such. Most of the shopkeepers and fishermen 
she'd encountered over the previous few years had had little use for mainlanders, 
save as a source of income in the summer months. An aged floating ruin of a ferry 
linked the island with the distant shores of Wales. The tenuous connection seemed 
to suit all concerned.
	At least, it usually did. She smiled, glancing unthinking through the window of 
the pub, into the storm. She'd followed the spoor of Teddy Barlow's morning 
through the streets of the village and out onto the spit of land that formed the 
southern extremity of Aberteyrnas. The direction of his descent had been clear to 
her long before the looming, rusted gates of the ferry docks had swollen from the 
mist of the storm. As she'd approached the termination of the island she was 
perplexed by the presence of the ferry, its schedule having called for its departure 
hours before.
	The ferry pilot was somewhat older than Dafydd, but much less restrained. 
She'd encountered him peripherally on several journeys to the mainland, but he'd 
clearly long since been enjoined to leave anything that might be taken for a tourist 
alone, lest the mainlanders complain to higher authorities. On this occasion he'd 
been well into a bottle of questionable scotch and not of the opinion that she was 
entitled to the deference due the modestly well-heeled. In the brief while she'd 
spoken to him, poised against the rear gate of the ferry, she'd had little difficulty 
imagining him undressing her in his thoughts.
	He'd terminated their brief conversation by reaching over the gate and 
clutching at her arm. She'd practically broken his.
	Through a miasmic haze of alcohol fumes he'd lamented that the ferry would 
be departing for nowhere of any import in the foreseeable future, as there was an 
indeterminate quantity of sugar in with its petrol. He'd discovered the sugar by 
starting the engine. Years earlier John Quick had used the technique to disable the 
car of one of the men he'd been hired to kill. He'd explained to her at the time that 
the result was typically the sudden appearance of large pieces of burnt rock candy 
amongst the moving parts of machinery so victimized, followed by the immediate 
cessation of movement.
	Unlike more sophisticated methods of disabling an engine, this one required 
nothing that couldn't be found at the local Safeways.
	The last thing the ferry pilot had told her before he'd lunged at her was that a 
new engine was expected from the mainland, but that it would likely be week's 
end before the ferry was of any use again. In the mean while, no one would be 
leaving Aberteyrnas.
	She glanced at Dafydd now, who'd returned to his morning rite of glass 
polishing. Who was privileged to be served drinks in those immaculate vessels, 
she wondered absently. Her own glass was streaked with lines of residue from the 
washing-up machine.
	The ferry pilot had moaned at great length about the vandalous youth of the 
island, but in reflection it seemed unlikely that any of them had been responsible 
for the sabotage. With the tourists and the casual help in the shops returned to the 
mainland, the remaining inhabitants of the island were almost exclusively retired 
couples and idle fishermen. It was beyond her to imagine any of them wishing to 
sever the connection with the mainland, especially now that none of the 
mainlanders were likely to be using it for several months to come.
	For a time as she'd trudged back through the streets of Llannewydd, peering 
from beneath her umbrella at the freshening storm, she'd been certain that Teddy 
Barlow had disabled the ferry. John Quick would have chided her for coming to 
such an obvious conclusion, she'd decided at length, if only because it was so 
obvious. She'd speculated at length how she might ascribe the deed to Ernst 
Gemmhardt.
	The problem with Ernst Gemmhardt, she reflected sourly for what she 
imagined was the tenth time in as many minutes, was that he was an enigmatic 
little bastard about whom she knew almost nothing. His police record said little 
more than that he wasn't a very nice man and his hotel room could have easily 
have been her own. It would have been an undemanding mental exercise to have 
attributed the disabled ferry to him, but only on the basis of wholly speculative 
evidence.
	She indulged herself in her drink once more. Someone had vandalized the ferry 
to keep someone else on the island. It seemed unlikely that Ernst Gemmhardt 
knew of either her existence or of the presence of MI6 on Aberteyrnas – there was 
no one he might wish to prevent from leaving the island. If Teddy Barlow sought 
to prevent her killing the German, he could desire nothing better than to have the 
man drive his hired car back to the ferry that had presumably debouched it onto 
the island and vanish.
	She smiled darkly. John Quick would have denounced her arguments with all 
the liturgical vehemence of a representative of the grand inquisition. All she'd 
really proven in the time she'd had to contemplate the events of the morning was 
that she knew far too little to arrive at anything more substantial than guesses.
	Her reverie was shattered by the tremulant warble of the telephone on the bar. 
Dafydd eyed it malevolently, as if her were daring it to ring again, before he 
snatched up its handset and barked something into it. At length he held it before 
his face and gestured to her with it. She glanced uncertainly about the pub, 
assuring herself that he'd not meant to give the call to someone she'd unaware of, 
before she slipped from her stool and circled the periphery of the bar. He handed 
her the telephone with obvious distaste for the thing and returned to his chores.
	"Hello," she began uncertainly.
	"Miss Gwynn?" a voice asked. She was a moment placing it as Doctor 
McKie's, instantly aware of the unlikelihood of his ringing her at the Lion.
	"Aye," she replied. 
	"I'm glad I've found you," he said, his voice somehow still less substantial in 
the handset of the telephone than it was in person. "Would you be able to get a taxi 
at this hour and return to the house?"
	"The house?" she asked, unthinking. "John Quick's house?"
	There was a pause at the far end of the connection. No, you stupid cow, she 
thought angrily, the queen mum's house.
	"Yes, if you could."
	"Is something wrong?" she asked, suddenly aware of the brittle timbre of her 
voice.
	"It's your housemaid, my dear," Doctor McKie said. It was the sort of voice 
she imagined physicians studied for years to perfect, a tone to be reserved for the 
harbingers of disaster. 
	"Gwen? Is she all right?"
	"I should think it would be best if you returned to the house."
	She stared blankly at the handset for a moment. "Aye," she said woodenly. She 
heard a metallic click as the connection was broken. Without thinking she began 
searching the pocket of her dress for a ten-pence coin. The number of the lone taxi 
company on Aberteyrnas was printed on a dog-eared business card affixed to a 
nearby wall with yellowed sticky tape. She willed her eyes to focus on it as she 
began stabbing at the buttons of the telephone.

• • •

The door slammed behind her with what she imagined was just short of the force 
required to shatter its leaded glass window. Doctor McKie had clearly observed 
her arrival through the main window of the sitting room, as he was emerging into 
the hall to intercept her when she entered. He smiled benignly at her for an instant, 
reaching for her umbrella. She handed it to him unthinkingly.
	"I'm sorry to have alarmed you, my dear," he began.
	"Gwen?" she asked, hearing her voice begin to shatter. She glanced past him, 
into the sitting room. There was a prone, motionless figure on one of the settees.
	"She's all right... still rather confused, I'm afraid." He stared at her for an 
instant, suggesting that he was confused as well, that he expected her presence to 
enlighten them both.
	"What's happened?" she demanded.
	Robert McKie put his arm about her shoulder and led her further along the hall, 
away from the doorway to the sitting room. Clearly he wished to be out of earshot 
of anyone within it. She felt his eyes boring into her in the moment before he 
spoke.
	"She's well enough... by rights she should be dead now," he said, his voice a 
harsh whisper in the stagnant air of the house.
	"I don't understand," Emma said quietly.
	"I came by about an hour ago. I found her in your back garden, hanging by her 
arms from one of the trees. She'd been wrapped in several layers of clothes. 
They'd become soaking wet with the rain. I'm certain that in time the weight on 
her chest would have suffocated her."
	Emma looked away from him for a moment, wondering if she'd heard the note 
of accusation in his voice or merely imagined it. She felt her thoughts whirling 
before her, angry and disjointed. "Who..." she began.
	"I thought you might tell me that," he said evenly. "I think the police ought to 
be involved in this."
	"No," she said quickly. "I don't know who..."
	She glanced up to meet his eyes for a moment. "I don't know who..." she 
repeated.
	"Would I be correct in assuming that she was not party to John Quick's... 
enterprises?"
	She turned away from him, deciding that the accusation in his voice was quite 
unmistakable now. "Yes, you'd be quite right," she replied. "I shouldn't have 
involved her, and it's my own bloody fault, and no, you can't call the police."
	She heard the older man sigh, imagined him glaring at her reproachfully in the 
moment before she summoned the will to face him again.
	"John Quick said the law on Aberteyrnas couldn't find their collective 
backsides with a ten-man searching party," she said. "I think it was one of the 
reasons he liked it here. I should prefer to deal with this... myself."
	Doctor McKie regarded her for a moment, as if he were considering whether 
she was sufficiently responsible to be entrusted with the wellbeing of her help. "I 
don't imagine I'd be far off suggesting that this has something to do with the 
unfinished work you mentioned the other day," he said at length.
	"I imagine it might," she allowed. 
	He was silent for a moment. "She was intended to be dead when you returned 
home. I should say she was to be a message of some sort... John occasionally 
mentioned sending those sorts of messages..."
	"Really?" she asked. His conclusion was quite obvious, she considered, but it 
seemed out of keeping with the character she'd ascribed to him.
	"I've examined her... she's not been harmed, save for rope burns on her wrists. 
She's certain she's not been... interfered with. Her arms were tied with hemp 
rope... in a hangman's knot."
	She considered him for a time, thinking the details he'd mentioned displaced 
from the conversation. He was no longer scolding her for the danger she'd allowed 
to befall Gwen, she realized suddenly.
	He smiled grimly and continued. "One picks up all manner of things in a place 
the size of Llannewydd, my dear. Hemp rope rots, you see... the fisherman haven't 
used the stuff for years... not since they could get yellow nylon rope. I shouldn't 
think you could buy it anywhere on Aberteyrnas, nor would I imagine any of the 
lads from the docks would know how to tie such a knot."
	"I wouldn't have said it was a fisherman in any case, doctor," she offered.
	"Gwen maintains she knows who was responsible for... this," Doctor McKie 
said softly. "She refused to tell me. Perhaps she'll divulge her secret to you."
	She glanced away from him, the note of accusation in his voice stinging. I 
didn't bring her into this, she thought angrily. I left her safely at home this 
morning. The obvious contradiction of that notion seemed almost laughable. 
Doctor McKie stood before her, a squat, accusing god demanding her repentance.
	"What... what should I do for her?" Emma asked softly, unable to meet his 
eyes.
	"I've left some tablets on the table beside her," he replied woodenly. "Her 
wrists and shoulders will be quite painful for a time. She's to have two every four 
hours. Bring her to see me if she's still in pain by week's end."
	"Ta," she said.
	He glanced at his watch. "Or better still... the noon ferry leaves in half an hour. 
Put her on it, and yourself as well."
	She felt her jaw harden, forcing herself to meet his eyes at last. They were gray 
eyes, crystallized with years and the knowledge of a weakening heart, hardening 
arteries, the fag-end of a lifetime. He didn't fear the men who'd nearly ended 
Gwen's life, as he'd been on speaking terms with the agents of the end of his own 
long before they'd arrived on Aberteyrnas. She wondered absently what he might 
see in her eyes as she spoke to him.
	"I can't do that, doctor," she said, surprised at the steel in her own words. She 
considered whether to explain to him that beyond her unwillingness to abandon 
John Quick's final job, the ferry would offer her little assistance. It hardly 
mattered, she decided. He would learn of it soon enough. Other matters teased at 
her awareness.
	Doctor McKie lifted an expensive-looking mackintosh from the coat tree 
beside her and struggled into it. His medical bag rested on the floor by his feet. As 
he crouched to retrieve it, she realized that there was a fragment of incongruity 
about his being in the house at all.
	"Doctor," she began. He turned to regard her as he adjusted the coat about his 
shoulders. 
	"Yes, my dear."
	"May I ask why you came here this morning?"
	His face distended in thought for a moment, as if her question required that he 
search memories long since consigned to the distant past. "I was looking for your 
young man," he replied at last.
	She regarded him curiously.
	"Your... friend," he continued, clearly unable to recall the lad's name, "the 
fellow who lives in the cottage in your garden."
	She forced herself to appreciate that he was referring to Teddy Barlow, that the 
chasm which separated this morning from that of the previous day yawned only 
before her. The doctor could know nothing of what had befallen her.
	"What did you want of Mister Barlow?" she asked coldly. The doctor seemed 
momentarily disturbed by her tone.
	"He appeared at my surgery last evening, just as I was preparing to leave. He 
had... a rather nasty gash across his head... it required several stitches. I gave him 
some tablets, but he forgot to take the bottle with him. He wasn't at his cottage 
when I called this morning." 
	She glanced away from him. I asked you to keep away from all this, she 
thought bitterly. I asked Gwen to remain at home last night as well. Her thoughts 
raced, wondering at how much of the previous day's events Doctor McKie might 
require to remain out of harm's way.
	"I think it would be best if you didn't have anything else to do with Mister 
Barlow," she said at length, finding his gaze once more. "He's with MI6, and he's 
turned out to be a right bastard. I imagine he's responsible for... for what happened 
to Gwen, as well." She decided that she would not explain how Teddy Barlow had 
come to receive his wounds.
	His eyes narrowed, his expression suggesting that he was considering whether 
to believe her. He turned toward the front door. "Please be careful, my dear," he 
said, a note of resignation in his voice. He'd used that voice upon bidding John 
Quick good evening, she was certain, after he'd seen to his wounds.
	"Aye," she said softly.
	He opened the door and turned once more to face her. "John... John died many 
years ago, about the time you were born, I should say," he muttered. "You've a 
life before you."
	She felt herself stung by his words, by the brooding tone in which he'd spoken 
them. She parted her lips to ask him what he'd meant by them, but the door was 
already closing behind him as he eased himself back into the storm.
	Shaking her head to dispel thoughts she decided she hadn't the luxury to 
contemplate, she strode uncertainly into the sitting room. Gwen lay on a settee 
pressed against the far wall, her form illuminated by the enfeebled light from one 
of the windows. The girl seemed disproportionately small, a long-since discarded 
toy found disused in someone's attic. Her eyes moved languidly as Emma 
approached her.
	"How do you feel?" Emma asked, hearing herself whisper.
	Gwen seemed a long while answering. "Well enough," she replied.
	Emma pulled one of the Elizabethan visitor's chairs over to the settee. She 
glanced at Gwen, at the antimacassar behind the girl's head which she knew 
concealed the bullet hole from several days earlier. She thought again of Teddy 
Barlow standing naked before her, squarely in the sights of his toy pistol, suddenly 
certain that John Quick would have bade her shoot him and damn the 
consequences. The chair forced her to sit in a position which tormented the bruises 
across her belly. She felt her jaw harden, deciding that she deserved the 
threatening ache.
	"I'm... I'm sorry," she whispered, unable to face Gwen for an instant, "I've 
gotten you into this. I should've known better..."
	Something touched her hand, starting her. She glanced down to find Gwen's 
finger spanning the void between them. The girl was smiling uncertainly.
	"It's nothing to worry yourself about, ma'am," Gwen said, her voiced slurred 
and musical.
	Emma glanced around the room, her eyes alighting on the bottle of tablets 
doctor McKie had mentioned. She picked them up and squinted at the label. The 
bottle contained Percodan. John Quick had provided her with some while her ribs 
had been healing, years earlier. Far from merely relieving her pain, the drug had 
left her largely incapable of feeling any.
	"How many of these have you had?" she asked Gwen.
	Gwen seemed to have difficulty focusing on the bottle in her hand. "Two," she 
replied at length.
	Emma forced herself to smile. "You're feeling pretty grand now, aren't you?"
	Gwen nodded. The sudden movement of her head didn't seem to agree with 
her, and her eyes wandered erratically in their orbits, a look of bemused distraction 
suffusing her features.
	"I want you to know that I shall find the little shit who did this," Emma said 
quietly, staring into the oily shadows at the far end of the room. "Mister Barlow's 
going to wish he'd stayed at bloody Cambridge."
	"I don't understand, ma'am," Gwen said uncertainly.
	"It was Teddy Barlow who hung you from the tree, wasn't it?"
	Gwen stared at her, as if the question had been uttered in some language she'd 
learned at high school and subsequently all but forgotten. "No, ma'am," she 
replied at length. "It was the bloke from the pub last night... the one you pointed to 
through the window."
	"Ernst Gemmhardt?"
	"Aye, the one in the posh suit."
	She spent several moments struggling with this thought, locating a niche for it 
in the ruined mosaic of her perceptions. When she had the leisure to consider it, 
she decided, she would certainly encounter any number of problems with Ernst 
Gemmhardt assaulting Gwen. The immediate one, however, was that the German 
should not have known of her existence.
	"Did you get a proper look at him?" she asked, uncertain what else to inquire 
after.
	Gwen nodded her head, clearly regretting the gesture almost immediately. "For 
a moment, aye. It was the same old bastard in the same posh suit."
	"I don't imagine you'd know what time that was?"
	"No, ma'am. It was some while after Mister Barlow cleared his things out of 
his cottage."
	She stared absently at Gwen for a moment, distantly angry with the girl for 
reasons she could not define. "Are you certain that was this morning?" she asked, 
conscious of the measured, parental tone to her voice. The Percodan had 
scrambled her wits when she'd used it, she recalled. She wondered how much of 
Gwen's recollection could be credited.
	"Aye, ma'am," Gwen replied, seeming to will herself to concentrate. "He came 
by in a little blue holiday car, just like yesterday, and fetched his things. I watched 
him for a time, and then I went out to the garden to empty the dustbins."
	She glanced away from Gwen. It would have been much more comforting to 
have ascribed everything the girl had related as being the product of her ordeal and 
the pain-killers Doctor McKie had given her. None of it was making the sort of 
sense she might have desired. Teddy Barlow had been blown, as John Quick 
would have described it. He knew she was armed, and not in the best of moods. 
She could imagine nothing in his cottage that would have been worth returning 
for. She let Gwen's words replay in her thoughts for a time, certain there was 
something else unusual about them. They had become a silent litany for her, 
soporific and mindless, when she finally identified what it was.
	"What sort of car did you say he was driving?" she asked Gwen suddenly.
	"I... I don't know, ma'am," Gwen replied. "It was the same one as he was 
driving when he came 'round yesterday. A little blue holiday car... the sort the 
yobs from the mainland come over in when they're on holiday."
	Wordlessly she rose from the chair and crossed the room. There was a basket 
with the previous week's newspapers crushed into it, a silent explosion of type and 
grainy photography. She upended it, scattering the papers until she found a more 
or less complete edition of the Daily Mirror. She allowed herself to be amused by 
its presence for a moment – John Quick had all but forbidden either of them to 
allow the Mirror to be seen in his presence, disparaging it as the work of 
journalists who'd really wanted careers as lorry drivers but had found themselves 
too inarticulate. 
	Amidst its two-paragraph lurid stories describing the transgressions of the 
over-privileged, the Mirror was awash with advertisements. At this time of year, 
she'd noticed, the most prevalent ones were for cars.
	She returned to her seat beside Gwen. "I want you to tell me what sort of car 
you saw," she said. Gwen eased herself into a sitting position, wincing despite the 
pain-killers as she rested her weight on her arms for a moment. Emma opened the 
paper to the first automobile advertisement she found. Gwen shook her head.
	The picture she sought after turned out to be at the center of the newspaper, 
sprawled across two pages. Gwen regarded it for a moment before she smiled and 
nodded. "Aye," she said at length. "It was that one. A holiday car. Is it important?"
	Emma turned the paper so she could see the advert, although she was certain 
she knew what sort of car it depicted. "Aye," she mused, as much to the 
newspaper as to Gwen. "Aye, it's quite important."
	"I don't understand."
	She turned the paper so Gwen could see it again. "This is a Ford Fiesta," she 
explained. "It's as you say, a holiday car. It's the sort of car that people hire to 
come on holiday, as they're cheap. It's also one of the grottiest little cars about... 
John Quick hired one once when there was nothing else going. He made me drive 
it most of the time, as he couldn't stand it. Teddy Barlow had car magazines all 
over his cottage... he used to talk about owning a Ferrari or a Porsche. This is the 
last car he'd choose for himself."
	"I'm certain it's what he arrived in," Gwen said defensively.
	"I'm certain you're right," Emma agreed. She released the newspaper, 
allowing it to flutter noisily to the floor at her feet. "I'm also certain I know where 
I shall find him... him and his mates, I should imagine."
 	Gwen seemed amused by this. "Will they be living in that little car, do you 
think?"
	She'd realized some minutes earlier that her divinations concerning the 
whereabouts of Ernst Gemmhardt would apply equally to Teddy Barlow, now that 
he was no longer in residence at his cottage. Assuming that the colleagues he'd 
spoken of the previous morning actually existed, they too would have required a 
place to stay. They would not have wanted a bed and breakfast, for much the same 
reason that Ernst Gemmhardt would not. They would have sought to hide 
somewhere, somewhere with a lot of natural camouflage.
	Ernst Gemmhardt had chosen his hiding place poorly. Teddy Barlow was 
cleverer, she decided. He'd found the only place on the island where he could hide 
in a crowd, and he'd chosen a car that would be able to hide there as well. The 
Hare and Hound was no doubt besieged by swelling legions of Ford Fiestas, and 
one more such occupant of its car-park would hardly be noticed. She wondered 
absently if he'd been required to wear a blue jacket and a cheesy smile to complete 
his new legend. 
	She sat for a time with Gwen, musing over the prospect of confronting Teddy 
Barlow under more advantageous circumstances. At length she noticed something 
move in the far distance, beyond the window behind Gwen. A bright yellow figure 
lumbered along the beach, jogging erratically. She'd seen him before, she knew, 
seen him most mornings now for weeks. Joggers were unremarkable in the 
summer months – Gwen had observed once that they were most likely tourists 
from the mainland who ran to be granted a respite from their families for half an 
hour.
	It seemed a singular lapse in her attention that she'd not considered the 
peculiarity of this one. The tourists had departed long before. She sprinted for the 
stairs, for John Quick's office on the second floor of the house. There was a rifle 
scope in one of the desk drawers. The man in the yellow jogging suit was well past 
the house by the time she located it, and she managed only the briefest glimpse of 
his face before he vanished around a spit of sand. She was certain none the less 
that she'd seen it before. As had Gwen, she reminded herself angrily.

• • •

She paid for her drink and smiled at the barman, thinking as she did that he 
deserved to be given a proper ragging-out. Half a pint in the ponced-up lounge of 
the Hare cost almost as much as a full pint at the Lion. She reminded herself that 
the half pint was an element of the perception of herself that she wished to convey 
– her legend, she thought, smiling.
	"What was the name of the fellow you're waiting for again?" the man inquired. 
He was gray and unsmiling, one of numerous liveried automatons she'd 
encountered since she'd crossed the polished brass threshold of the Hare and 
Hound a few minutes earlier. He wore a plastic badge which proclaimed 'My 
name is Bob. How may I serve you?' She wondered absently if he required a 
casual glance at the badge from time to time to remind himself of his own identity. 
	"MacDonald," she replied, forcing herself to use the same vacant tone she had 
a moment earlier as she'd requested a drink. "He's my uncle, you see," she 
continued. "He's a fair tall chap, red hair... he has a dealership all the way up in 
Newcastle, you see, and I hardly ever get to see him..."
	The man waved dismissingly. "As soon as he comes in I'll let him know 
you're here, love," he promised insincerely. Absently he turned from her and 
began wiping the surface of his bar with a cloth.
	She'd faded into the backdrop of his perceptions even before he'd finished 
speaking, she decided, thinking that she could have asked for little better. She'd 
considered as she'd regarded him from the lobby of the hotel a moment earlier 
whether he might be working with Teddy Barlow. The prospect seemed remote 
now.
	The Hare and Hound was swarming with car salesmen, as she'd anticipated. 
Most of them were poorly shaven lads who'd probably dreamt of careers as 
stockbrokers or merchant bankers in the heady days of their youths. Few had 
noticed her as she'd walked uncertainly through the lobby, glancing about herself. 
Those few women who were about had attired themselves in severe business 
clothes, tight skirts or masculine suits, and could easily be identified as individuals 
worth cultivating the attention of. She was clearly someone local, and on this 
remote prominence of Wales no one her age could be expected to have the means 
to purchase a new car.
	Teddy Barlow was staying in a room on the second floor of the hotel. He'd not 
even bothered to register under an assumed name, or he'd realized the danger in 
doing so, having lived on the island for so long under his proper one. She'd 
telephoned up to his room but she'd found no one in residence. He was, likewise, 
not in the restaurant. The lad at the front desk had assured her that the hotel's 
recreation facilities had been shut down months earlier with the onset of inclement 
weather.
	She located a seat in the gloomy lounge of the bar which afforded her a view of 
the hotel's lobby. She glanced condescendingly at the diminutive glass before her, 
thinking that in other circumstances she could have slaughtered it quite 
comfortably in a single swallow. It was so much easier making a full pint last. An 
inconsistent Escher print of nearly identical figures stumbled across her field of 
view, each of them measured against an image of Teddy Barlow and found 
wanting. 
	He was almost an hour arriving, and when he finally did appear she felt herself 
smile, thinking that she need not have scrutinized each passing face with anything 
like the attention she'd afforded them. Unequipped with the synthetic gentility of 
the car salesmen, Teddy Barlow sprung through the lobby doors cursing the Welsh 
weather and angrily brushing the rain from his coat. Several of the other 
inhabitants of the lobby glanced reprovingly at him as he passed, clearly 
uncomfortable that one of their own might behave so boorishly.
	She could imagine John Quick being amused by such an observation, she 
decided as she swallowed the last of her drink and rose to leave. When the car 
salesmen want nothing more to do with you it's time for merciful bullet between 
the eyes. Perhaps I shall administer it, she thought absently, hearing the venom in 
her unspoken words.
	Teddy Barlow strode across the lobby and into the hotel's restaurant. He was 
followed by one other man, considerably taller and more muscular than he but 
clearly his subordinate. The restaurant was busy and they were forced to accept a 
table almost in its center, which he clearly disliked. A lad dressed in a uniform 
similar to what the barman had been wearing approached her, asking if she wished 
a table. She smiled and glanced over his shoulder, saying that she was waiting for 
the rest of her party. As soon as he'd abandoned her to attend to someone else she 
slipped into the dining room and worked her way around the perimeter of the room 
until she could approach Teddy Barlow's table with his back to her.
	He was still engrossed in a battered-looking menu when she came abreast of 
his table, unaware of her presence until she spoke.
	"It's a pleasure to see you looking so well, love," she whispered. His head 
snapped around, gyrating for an instant as if he were uncertain where her 
disembodied voice might have been projected from. He seemed a long while 
alighting on her form standing beside his chair. 
	He glared at her for an instant, clearly ill at ease with nothing to say.
	"What... what do you imagine you're doing here?" he snapped at last.
	"I've missed your company terribly... I thought perhaps we might put our little 
differences behind us." She smiled as she imagined teenage girls might do when 
they were making up with their boyfriends. Still smiling, she turned to face the 
man across the table from Teddy Barlow. The man stared back at her 
expressionlessly, his eyes tiny machine parts set into plastic features. His suit fit 
him poorly, or he wore it with practiced unfamiliarity. It was gray and badly 
tailored, she noticed, unlike the apparel of almost everyone else in the room.
	"Do you think you might... leave us alone for a moment?" she asked him with 
mock uncertainty. "It's... rather personal."
	She heard Teddy Barlow sigh, clearly growing confused by her sudden 
appearance and her peculiar composure. The other man glanced at him, his 
expression suggesting that he was awaiting instructions. Teddy Barlow nodded 
minutely.
	The man's features soured. "I've not had me tea yet," he complained, his 
accent nasal and unfamiliar.
	"This won't take very long," Teddy Barlow said woodenly. The man rose from 
his chair without further protest and strode from the room.
	He'd smelled oddly, she thought fleetingly as she moved to accept the vacant 
chair. It was a childlike smell, uncertain why it seemed to be so. She forced herself 
to regard the figure before her, watching his features stiffen in the moments before 
he decided what to say. You'd not expected me to find you here, she thought, not 
expected me to dare to confront you here if I did. She decided that she was pleased 
with the observation, pleased that there was at least one element of the previous 
few days which was not wholly occluded for her.
	"It was very stupid of you, coming here," he said at last, glancing across the 
room. "Very stupid, even for you. I should have thought that you'd be on the 
mainland by now."
	She considered this, deciding that it was a question of sorts. "It would be a 
difficult thing, getting to the mainland. I've never fancied myself much of a 
swimmer."
	She watched his expression sag for an instant before he resolved himself. Now 
wasn't that curious, she considered... he wanted to know what she'd been up to 
this morning and he'd not been about in Llannewydd to observe her. He knew that 
the ferry had been knackered and he wished to know if she knew. There were two 
possible reasons why he might have been aware of its sabotage...
	A waitress approached the table. He waved at her dismissingly, sending her 
further into the maelstrom of the dining room.
	"You'll not be wanting a meal, love," he explained once the waitress was well 
out of earshot. "Not for what I've in mind for you."
	Very well, she thought, let us dispense with the formal barbarities at once. She 
refused to permit herself any enjoyment of their conversation.
	She glanced at her watch, thinking that the gesture seemed overacted. "There 
isn't time for what you have in mind for me... love," she whispered sternly. "If I'm 
not well away from here presently Gwen will call the local nick. She has the 
picture of the two of us from your bedside table... and Aberteyrnas is a tiny bit of 
rock, one you'll not be leaving in a hurry." He opened his mouth to speak, a look 
of mild surprise touching his features, but she continued. "I don't imagine MI6 
would have much difficulty with the police, but you'd still spend a few days in a 
cell while it was sorted out. I don't think you'd fancy that."
	She leaned back in her chair. "Or I could just walk outside and shout rape. I 
shouldn't think I'd have much difficulty making them believe me. I've the bruises 
to prove it, you see..."
	He glared at her sullenly, clearly weighing the possibility of her doing what 
she'd threatened. It would have been a grand idea, giving Gwen that picture, she 
considered, had she thought of it. She'd visited his cottage on her way to the 
village and noticed that he'd left it behind. Gwen was presumably still in the 
sitting room of John Quick's house. Emma had left the girl clutching a shotgun as 
she might have done a stray kitten.
	Teddy Barlow glanced uncertainly about the room, his movements ferretlike. 
She was a moment appreciating that he was looking for Gwen. When his attention 
returned to her she shot him a reproving glance, which seemed to anger him still 
more. 
	"What do you bloody well want, then?" he demanded.
	"I'd like to offer you a bargain," she began. Actually, I'd like to suspend you 
by your heels and shake you to see what falls out, she considered. She'd had the 
opportunity to refine the nature of her problem during the long trudge back into 
Llannewydd earlier that day. She lacked enough information about Ernst 
Gemmhardt to know whether to kill him. John Quick's papers, voluminous though 
they were, didn't appear likely to improve on this. Teddy Barlow was the only 
person on the island who seemed to know more about the German than she did. 
She'd decided that doing something unpredictable might dislodge a few scraps of 
insight.
	Yes, John Quick, she'd muttered at the bruised, angry clouds overhead, you 
needn't tell me it's a poor excuse for a plan. I'm certain you could have done far 
better. If you've any suggestions I shall be pleased to hear them. Predictably, John 
Quick had been less than forthcoming with his advice. Perhaps things hadn't 
changed all that much with his passing.
	"I wouldn't have said you're in much of a bargaining position, girl," he said 
warily.
	"I can imagine worse. I'd like you to tell me about Ernst Gemmhardt. If you 
can convince me that he's less of an utter bastard than you are, I'll leave him alive. 
Otherwise, when I get up from the table I'll walk down the hill and cut his throat."
	Teddy Barlow glanced uncertainly about the room, as if he were measuring the 
distance between her chair and the nearest exit. His eyes narrowed minutely. "You 
should have been put down a long time ago, girl," he whispered. "I said as much 
the last time I was..." He stopped himself and assumed an angry smile. "John 
Quick has taught you a wealth of unpleasant habits. You want proper respect for 
your betters... someone in your line of work shouldn't imagine herself qualified to 
choose who's to be done and how."
	She regarded him for a moment, taken with the tone of his voice and the odd 
turn of the conversation. The previous night he'd been of the opinion that she was 
little more than a jumped-up housekeeper. Why had he suddenly decided that she 
had a 'line of work,' she wondered fleetingly. Perhaps it was a compliment of a 
sort to be regarded as a proper threat by a representative of MI5 or MI6.
	"I wouldn't want to leave the choice up to your lot, love," she said evenly. 
"You'd have me shooting mothers and newspaper reporters."
	His faced reddened slightly. "What are you on about?" he demanded.
	She was distracted by the unexpected anger in his words, uncertain for a time 
where the allusion had been drawn from. She was a moment recalling the incident, 
a fragment of conversation with John Quick as they'd waited in a pub in Antwerp 
for someone she could no longer name.
	"It was several years back. Some of your lot approached John Quick to do a 
newspaper reporter because he said he had naughty pictures of Prince Charles and 
some tart he fancied. John Quick told them to get stuffed, of course. In the end, it 
was one of your lot did it... tried to shoot the poor bastard in a railway cafe and 
missed, hit a pregnant lady instead, I think. He was dressed up in flash clothes... 
John Quick said it was supposed to make people think it had something to do with 
drugs, but he knew a chap with the local nick where it happened, said the bullet 
was from an old Walthar PP. It isn't the sort of thing the druggies use at all. John 
Quick said it was a leftover gun, something the bloke from MI5 wouldn't have 
minded losing if he'd had to run for it. The woman who was shot by mistake 
nearly died, and she lost her..."
	Something moved in the corner of her vision. Teddy Barlow lunged for her, his 
hand clutching at her arm. She twisted away from him, half on her feet as she 
realized that his face was bloody with rage. He growled something 
incomprehensible and fell back into his chair, glaring at her. Uncertainly she 
resumed her own.
	"Bloody hell," she whispered. "That was you..."
	"Shut up..."
	"It was you," she repeated, hearing the awe in her own words. She forced 
herself to ignore the shrieking madness in his eyes as he stared at her. "You... you 
actually tried to do someone for... newspaper photographs."
	"I did as I was ordered," he spat, his words barely audible over the undulating 
murmur of the room.
	She smiled inwardly, hearing his voice grow defensive. This was going to be 
rather more convenient than she'd dared hope, she considered. If only she could 
avoid being shot herself before he realized that he was being manipulated...
	She rested her chin on her hand, regarding him contemplatively. "I've been in 
quite a few railway cafes... they're awfully small. How could you miss a shot like 
that?"
	His anger became luminous behind his eyes. "It's not like shooting someone 
with a rifle, you stupid cow," he replied through clenched teeth. "There's a lot 
more to it than looking at the crossed hairs and pulling a trigger... a lot more..." He 
seemed to realize abruptly that she was taunting him and he fell silent.
	"John Quick said that in this country one is permitted to possess pictures of the 
royal family buggering sheep if such things can be found... without fear of being 
shot at by employees of her majesty's government. It seems little comfort that they 
sent someone who couldn't shoot properly. That sort of thing's a bit beyond MI6 in 
any case, isn't it? You lot are supposed to shoot reporters in far-off lands."
	Teddy Barlow's fist slammed into the table top, drawing the attention of 
several diners at an adjoining table. He said nothing for a moment, clearly willing 
himself to be calm. "I was seconded to... to another agency for that. I work for the 
defense of this country," he began at length, his words more recited than spoken. 
"I do what I'm told by men whose job it is to know who is to be... dealt with... to 
secure the nation. I don't question my orders... and I don't try to bargain with the 
people who give them."
	"I'm sure there've been nastier pictures of Prince bloody Charles in News of 
the World," she said. In an hour or two she would allow herself to imagine the 
cafe where the shooting had taken place, the minds of the men who'd ordered it 
and that of the one she'd once slept with who'd perpetrated it. It would seem 
dreamlike, she knew, and patently unreal.
	"It was some time ago, before his... indiscretions... had all become public. It 
would have been an embarrassment to the government."
	She smiled at him. "It seems to have been an embarrassment to MI6 instead... or 
perhaps that other agency."
	His head snapped around to glare at her once again. "What are you on about?"
	"It was a few weeks before you arrived here, that shooting. I fancy it's why 
they sent you here to... dig in the muck and watch over John Quick. This is your 
last chance, Mister Barlow... cock up on Aberteyrnas and it's the sack for you, I 
should say." She moved minutely closer to him and allowed her voice to diminish 
to a whisper. "It is the sack they give you at MI6, I hope. I mean... they don't 
follow you into a railway cafe with an old Walthar automatic and give you early 
retirement, do they?"
	"I don't have to listen this from the likes of you," he snarled, staring fixedly 
into the distance behind her.
	"No, you don't. It's all a repeat of what you had to listen to from the likes of 
whoever it is you work for, I should say. Perhaps you should tell me what I want 
to know and I'll leave you to the company of your tame gorilla."
	He seemed to force himself to smile. "If I ever catch you within half a mile of 
Ernst Gemmhardt again I shall personally hang you up to twist in the breeze, girl. 
If you're too thick to believe that, I suggest you walk down the hill to his hotel and 
see what happens."
	She stared at him mutely for a moment, her mind scrambling. It was time to 
leave, she realized abruptly. There was something wrong with her perception of 
the events of the morning, a danger here that she'd not appreciated. She let his 
words replay in her head until she heard the one that she sought. It hadn't even 
been a word, she decided, trying not to smile. It had been an inflection.
	Abruptly she stood up. "And if I ever see you again I'll tell the police what 
you've done to me," she shouted, quite loudly enough for a quarter of the 
restaurant to hear her. A sea of faces turned languidly to regard what promised to 
be a moment's diversion. Teddy Barlow's expression became bloodless, his eyes 
clouded with distress and confusion. She kicked the chair back under the table and 
strode angrily from the restaurant. She glanced at the reflection of the room in the 
glass door that separated the dining room from the lobby of the Hare and Hound. 
Teddy Barlow was still seated, rigid in his chair. His earlier companion was not to 
be seen. A hundred pairs of eyes were observing her as she left.

• • •

She watched Gwen turn toward the sound of the door closing behind her, squinting 
into the shadows at the far end of the kitchen as she absently polished a cup. She 
stepped forward unthinkingly. The girl's eyes widened and she screamed, the 
sound punctuated by the explosion of the cup shattering against the slates at her 
feet. Gwen stepped back, preparing to flee. Uncertainly Emma glanced behind 
herself, wondering for an instant whether someone had crept into the house after 
her.
	Gwen paused for a moment, her terror suddenly overcome with curiosity. 
"Ma'am?" she asked, her voice cracked and thin.
	She decided that it would be unkind to laugh, realizing at length what had 
unnerved Gwen. She stretched her arm behind her head and dislodged the severe 
red wig that had been clutching at her, spider-like, for most of the evening. The 
sensation of removing it was almost sexual, so long had she suffered beneath its 
embrace.
	Gwen glanced at the floor. "I'm dreadfully sorry, ma'am. I'd not realized it 
was you."
	"I shouldn't have frightened you," Emma said apologetically. "I'd forgotten I 
was dressed... unusually."
	Gwen regarded her, clearly seeking after her departed composure. She'd stared 
at herself in her mirror several hours earlier, hardly recognizing the woman who'd 
scowled at her from the glass. She was wearing black trousers and a black leather 
jacket. They'd contrasted oddly with the red wig. Her eyebrows were equally 
darkened and she'd found a black lipstick to complete the effect. She looked very 
unlike herself, she'd decided. She looked like someone from the mainland who'd 
come across for the summer and thought better of it as soon as the ferry had 
departed. It was a variation on an appearance she'd created for one of John 
Quick's schemes. She'd helped kill a man when last she'd worn these clothes, 
she'd recalled earlier.
	Gwen was glancing about the room, perhaps for a broom to sweep up the 
ruined cup. Emma walked forward to the kitchen table and unzipped her jacket. 
Gwen's eyes widened once more as she withdrew a coil of banknotes half as thick 
as her arm and peeled off several, dropping them to the table.
	"I'm pleased to tell you that I'm able to pay you your wages after all," she said. 
"I think that should cover what you're owed."
	Gwen took the money uncertainly. "Aye, ma'am," she breathed. "And for 
several weeks to come."
	"Good... perhaps there'll be coal this winter after all," she said, recalling her 
earlier observation to the contrary.
	"Begging your pardon, ma'am," Gwen said hesitantly, "but I should like to 
ask... I should like to ask how you've come to have... that." She gestured at the roll 
of notes in Emma's hand.
	"I've robbed a tourist," Emma replied.
	"Ma'am?"
	She allowed herself to smile. "Very well, then... I've robbed Ernst 
Gemmhardt."
	Gwen looked again at the money in her hand and returned it carefully to the 
table between them. "I'm sorry ma'am... I don't think I can be taking this," she 
whispered coldly.
	"It's perfectly good money... it spends just as well as the kind you get in a 
wage packet, girl."
	"No, ma'am... it's money from drugs. I should prefer to wait for my proper 
wages."
	She heard herself sigh, reminding herself that Gwen knew nothing of the 
events of the afternoon and the evening which had followed it. "I'm not certain 
where this has come from," she said quietly, gesturing with the notes in her hand, 
"but it's not from drugs."
	"I... I don't understand, ma'am... the German bloke sells drugs. It's what you 
said yesterday."
	"Aye, well, I'm sure I've been wrong before." She paused, considering where 
to begin her explanation. "I've done jobs with John Quick that have involved 
drugs... drugs dealers. They're unimaginable men... John Quick called them rabid. 
He said they had to be violent to survive long enough to be in a position to do 
what they did for a living. I should be quite happy never to encounter one of them 
again."
	"But the German bloke..."
	"I waited for him outside the Lion until he'd finished his whiskey. He found 
his car wouldn't start, as I'd knackered the engine. I caught him up in the field 
between the Lion and the Poacher's Pocket and I said I'd put a knife in him if he 
didn't give me his wallet."
	It had been a curious experience, standing before Ernst Gemmhardt in the faint 
glow of the lights from the Lion's car-park, the knife poised between them like a 
fanged accomplice. She'd seen considerably less terror in the eyes of men staring 
at a gun barrel. The older man had seemed to disintegrate, pleading incoherently 
as soon as he'd ascertained the intent of the shadowy figure before him. He'd 
begun sobbing, dropping to his knees as he'd fished about in his jacket for his 
wallet. On impulse she'd asked if he'd had anything else of value on him and he'd 
quickly produced the roll of banknotes she clutched now, and one other that still 
rested within her jacket. He'd been struggling with the strap of his watch with 
trembling fingers when she'd gathered up his money and disappeared into the 
nearby trees.
	"He was practically catatonic," she said, as much to herself as to Gwen. 
"Whatever he's doing on Aberteyrnas, he's not here to sell drugs. Pathetic, 
wingeing drugs dealers don't have particularly long careers, as I understand it. He 
didn't seem the sort to ruthlessly kill off his competitors."
	"He didn't seem to be bothered with trying to kill me," Gwen said coldly.
	Emma stared at the girl, reminding herself again that she'd not had the 
opportunity to tell Gwen what she'd learned. "It wasn't Ernst Gemmhardt who... 
hung you from the tree this morning," she said.
	"I saw him," Gwen insisted.
	"You saw a man in a gray suit with gray hair who was about the right size to be 
Ernst Gemmhardt. It isn't the same thing at all."
	Gwen glared at her, clearly unconvinced.
	She smiled at Gwen, thinking that she'd been some while convincing herself of 
the reality of that morning's events. "Ernst Gemmhardt has never been to the 
house before," she began. "However, he came by to kill you and he went into the 
back shed where he knew there was some old rope he could use. He didn't bring 
his own rope... if he had, it would have been new nylon rope from one of the shops 
in Llannewydd. Then he went upstairs to your room, knowing that no one else 
would be in the house to come upon him, and found several of your jumpers to 
wrap around you. Then he just walked away... all the way back into town. He 
didn't drive his car... there's only one set of tire marks in the drive, and those 
would be from Mister Barlow's Fiesta. I checked."
	"I... I don't understand. It was him..."
	"It was one of Teddy Barlow's mates. I met him this morning. He's about the 
right size to pass for Ernst Gemmhardt and he smelled of baby powder. I imagine 
he rubbed it in his hair to make himself look gray. You were only intended to see 
him for a moment in any case."
	Gwen glanced away from her into the oily shadows at the far end of the 
kitchen.
	"If it makes you feel any better, you weren't meant to die," she said quietly. 
"I... I fancy you were meant to frighten me off."
	I should think you might have known me better than that, Mister Barlow, she 
thought angrily. You very nearly got your precious bloody Herr Gemmhardt done 
for you because of her. She willed herself to crush her anger back into the box 
she'd constructed for it earlier that day. The blackness of her thoughts was coming 
to be matched by the opacity of the people who surrounded her.
	The room had grown silent and she found herself suddenly uncomfortable in it. 
"This morning... whether you were meant to be killed or not, you could have..." 
she began, uncertain what she might say. She suggested once more that Gwen 
leave the house, offering to pay for her lodgings in the village until Teddy Barlow 
had left and Ernst Gemmhardt had been dealt with. Gwen refused in a tone that 
suggested she would not suffer the matter to be raised again. 
	Gwen glanced about the kitchen, at length locating a brush and a dust pan. She 
busied herself with sweeping up the shattered cup. When she finally spoke again 
there seemed to be considerably more iron to her voice.
	"Do you not think the law will be around, after what you've had off the 
German bloke?" she inquired.
	"No," Emma replied, having considered the matter in the moments after she'd 
departed the car-park of the Red Lion. She lifted the wig from the table before her. 
Gwen smiled uncertainly, her expression suggesting that the disguise seemed 
meager protection from an onslaught of the local police.
	"Besides, if he went to the police to complain about his money being taken, 
he'd have to tell them why he came to be carrying all that cash about. I can't say 
what he's doing on Aberteyrnas, but I've a sense he'll not want to be telling the 
law about it."
	She turned to glance at the darkness, at the night beyond the kitchen door. 
You'll be telling me in the morning, old dear, she thought absently. Whatever 
Ernst Gemmhardt had had in mind for his portable wealth, she doubted that his 
encounter with her would affect it materially.
 	The kitchen smelled of food, reminding her that she'd had little to eat that day. 
Her stomach had been growing sour with the aftertaste of fear since she'd rejoined 
the shadows outside the Red Lion, awaiting the bleat of a policeman's whistle or 
perhaps the sound of gunfire. Neither had come. She pried open the refrigerator, 
considering at length that she might do well to send Gwen for some shopping with 
her new fortune.
	Teddy Barlow was dining at the Hare and Hound tonight, she reminded herself. 
You too will have some things to tell me in the morning, she thought, smiling into 
the largely empty cavity before her.



Own a printed, bound copy of this book. 

You can order on line at http://www.StevenWilliamRimmer.com – click on SHOP – or 
call our toll-free order desk at 1-800-263-1138. 




5

Sunday, May 13, 1990
Aberteyrnas

He watched the girl disappear into the rye grass that separated his garden from the 
ratty, tourist-strewn expanse of the beach. A moment earlier her young man had 
preceded her, clutching her hand as if it were the leash of one of the tourists' aged 
dogs. He turned angrily from the window, uncertain why the image troubled him.
	You're sleeping with the enemy, Emma my dear, he thought, refusing to give 
the expression voice lest he himself be forced to confront it. Half a lifetime ago the 
phrase had intimated mere treachery. It was literally true in this case.
	She's going to sleep with someone, he mused to himself, and it's hardly likely 
to be you. That wouldn't do at all. There were rules that needed not be spoken of, 
and that must certainly be one of them. Only a randy idiot would bed a woman and 
then hand her a gun.
	He glanced again at the harsh glare of the window. The undulating roar of the 
sunbathers and their discontented children clutched at him like candy-floss blown 
about in a freshening gale, tangling in his perceptions. The girl had vanished into 
the cacophony of bodies. 
	It would have been rather less troubling if she'd continued to spend her 
evenings with the lads who came across on the ferry, he considered archly. He'd 
decided some weeks earlier, in what he allowed now was an uncharacteristically 
vulgar mood, that he'd lacked the resolve to enlist her cunt in his service, however 
willing she'd seemed to volunteer most of the rest of herself over the previous few 
years.
	The first minder they'd sent to keep watch over him had arrived on 
Aberteyrnas several years after Emma had done. He'd been rotund, graying, florid 
with the influence of too many sherries after too many teas. He'd made a 
convincing-enough tourist, but he'd stayed on past the end of the summer and had 
fancied daily walks on the beach which had all but knackered him. Toward the end 
of each month he'd taken to lying in the rye grass like a large, discarded toy bear 
with a pair of binoculars and a pad of paper, pretending he couldn't be seen.
	He considered now that he might well have been insulted that his former 
employers had thought he required no better than a retired minor operative – or 
more likely the captain of a desk from Century House put out to grass with 
something to augment his pension. The man had returned to his hired flat in 
Llannewydd one afternoon to find a Polaroid of himself with bullet-holes for eyes. 
He'd embarked the evening ferry for the mainland.
	The second minder had been made of rather more robust stuff. He'd been in his 
middle thirties, well turned out and replete with the sort of tradecraft that had 
meant something ten years earlier. He'd probably arrived the following spring, 
although his presence hadn't become obvious until mid-summer. By the time his 
unfamiliar face had begun turning up rather more frequently than it should have, 
he'd fixed himself a blind in one of the hills overlooking the house with a long 
lens and a laser microphone to listen to conversations through the windows. He'd 
left the island at the same invitation as his predecessor, however. Clearly, he'd 
been instructed to do so.
	It had seemed that Century House had lost interest in him after that – no more 
of its bright, eager fellows redolent of cordite and shaving soap had set foot on the 
island. He'd been rather disturbed when he'd discovered why that was. The 
woman who'd been sent in their place had observed him for almost two years. 
She'd not been very good, in reflection, but they'd known the persistence of his 
vision and the various blind spots to which it was heir. He'd wondered as he'd 
pinned her picture to a tree and turned his back on it, carrying the rifle like some 
elongated metal and plastic infant nephew, whether she would appreciate that it 
would be a bluff. They'd certainly known him well enough to brief her as to the 
likelihood of his carrying out such a threat.
	He'd boarded the ferry behind her as she'd departed Aberteyrnas. As she'd 
been preparing to disembark for the mainland, he'd pressed one of Barbara 
Owens' best roses into her hand forcefully enough to drive its thorns into her 
palm. She'd turned to face him for an instant, her features suddenly ashen in the 
moment of recognition. The crowd of depleted tourists had pressed her forward 
and she'd stumbled uncertainly toward the car-park.
	Her replacement had been Edward Thomas Barlow, late of Cambridge, late of 
London... late of puberty, he thought, smiling wearily and enjoying his spite none 
the less. If he'd appeared on the island wearing a T-shirt that had read 'Property of 
Her Majesty's Government' his purpose in being there couldn't have been more 
obvious. Perhaps Teddy Barlow been the most insulting of all, he reflected now. 
	He leaned back in his creaking oak desk chair, toying with a knife which had 
once cut the throat of a man who'd looked vaguely like Teddy Barlow, and 
presently served him as a letter opener. Better the minder you know than the one 
you don't, he considered, as he'd done when he'd slipped the Polaroid of his 
newest minder into a book and thence onto one of his lesser-used shelves, never to 
be delivered. The offerings from Century House had been growing more 
diabolical, he'd concluded, and they'd no doubt continue to do so if he sent this 
one packing. Given enough time they'd present him with one who would succeed 
in remaining hidden... as the woman had very nearly done, he forced himself to 
add.
	The agreeable thing about Teddy Barlow was that he was as keen as mustard to 
prove himself, and he'd launched himself into his improbable legend with 
admirable enthusiasm. He was rarely far from the house and he was no great 
trouble to keep an eye on. The thought that he'd become a minder's minder had 
occurred to him on several occasions.
	The only thing that's pissing you off about this whole business is that the girl 
saw fit to begin fucking the little toad, he chided himself. It had been an 
unforeseen outcome of the deception. He'd spent years inculcating a loathing of 
MI6 into Emma – it had been a short flight of imagination to decide what she'd do 
if she learned that one of its employees was lodging down the garden. 
	"There will come a time when you'll be obliged to tell her who she'd been 
spreading her legs for, old son," he said to himself, hearing a note of grim laughter 
in his voice as it rattled in the silence of the empty room, "and on that day I'd 
suggest you unload every gun in the house." He'd known all her moods over the 
previous years, although she'd graced him with her rage infrequently. On those 
moments when he'd seen it in her eyes he'd imagined himself staring into the 
depths of all hells, incapable of imagining an anger so black or so violent. Would 
it be directed at Teddy Barlow or at himself, he wondered absently.
	The Polaroid remained where he'd secreted it. If Teddy Barlow had been given 
the same instructions as his predecessors, he could be sent away this very 
afternoon. The girl would know nothing more than a few tears.
	An all but silent mechanical fluttering teased at his awareness, the buzzing of 
an insect too small to be seen with his failing eyes. He shook his head, dispelling 
his reverie. The FAX machine in his hidden room was about to speak, he realized. 
Unthinking, he placed the knife atop one of the heaps of papers on his desk and 
got to his feet, fishing about in the pocket of his trousers for the key to the outer 
door.




Thursday, October 8, 1992
Aberteyrnas

The summer house had been built in 1948 as a pavilion to lodge a brass band 
which had survived the war only to return to Aberteyrnas and perish of stagnation. 
She glanced again at the corroded metal plaque set into a stone in the path that 
surrounded the structure. Its description of the place was rather more creative, she 
considered, although perhaps less accurate. There had been no brass band playing 
in the rotting wooden ruin during her time on the island, and judging by the list of 
the roof and the number of places where it permitted trickles of rain to invade the 
gloom it sheltered, no musicians had graced its confines for quite some while 
before. In the summer the mainlanders warned their children away from the 
discarded building, leaving it for spiders, doves and clouds of mosquitoes – the 
other tourists who habitually visited Aberteyrnas.
	She'd come to an accommodation with the summer house an hour earlier, 
locating a corner of the roof which had not wholly abandoned itself to the assaults 
of the autumn storms. Periodic exhalations of the weather had driven the rain 
through the open walls of the building, in time succeeding where the roof had 
failed. She clutched her coat about herself now, feeling herself begin to shiver.
	Her watch had worked its way well up her sleeve and she was some while 
extracting it. She glanced across the deserted high street of Llannewydd at the 
NatWest bank branch. Ernst Gemmhardt had arrived almost as if by royal 
command precisely as the bank had opened. He'd been well over twenty minutes 
within it. Considering that he was the only customer of the bank this morning, it 
seemed unlikely that he'd spent much of that time waiting in a queue. Her own 
associations with banks had been agreeably perfunctory, but even with a well-
applied imagination she could not conceive of anything that could require almost 
half an hour to accomplish within one.
	It was several minutes more before the opaque glass door of the bank flickered, 
distracting her for an instant, and the huddled figure of Ernst Gemmhardt emerged 
into the storm. He glanced accusingly at the sky and made his way across the high 
street. She watched him dissolve into the fog, considering for a moment whether 
she would follow him. Aberteyrnas was a small bit of rock, she reminded herself. 
When she was certain he was well down the high street she emerged from her 
corner of the summer house and strode quickly toward the bank.
	The NatWest branch looked very much like the other places of worship on the 
island, she thought wryly as she emerged from the storm into its lobby. It was 
soundless, deserted. The distant whir of computers and the erratic clatter of a 
typewriter teased at its hushed silence. Several tellers crouched behind thick plates 
of bulletproof glass, sexless and well turned out, armed with scales and obsolete-
looking calculating machines. She chose the first of them, rapping softly on the 
glass to attract the woman's attention.
	"May I help you?" the teller asked, regarding her vaguely for a moment. The 
woman on the far side of the glass looked like someone's mother grown bored of 
tending to her family. Her voice was watery and plaintive, made more so by the 
intervening glass.
	Emma smiled uncertainly. "Can you change this for me?" she asked. She 
searched about within her coat until she located a hundred-pound note she'd 
extracted earlier that morning from Ernst Gemmhardt's purloined wealth. She 
slipped it under the glass.
	The teller regarded it for a moment, seeming to remember at the last moment 
that it would be unprofessional of her to exhibit surprise at a note of such 
denomination. Emma felt herself being scrutinized.
	"My uncle give it' me," she said, deciding that she sounded sufficiently like 
one of the girls who'd been born on Aberteyrnas. "He's up to the Hare with the 
other car people. It's just that I'm a bit skint, he said get it changed, but none of 
the shops in town will have it." 
	The teller nodded minutely. Wordlessly she rose from her seat and strode into 
the darkness at the rear of the bank. She was some while returning, this time with 
an obese, balding man in tow. The man leant over the teller's counter, smiling 
institutionally at Emma through the heavy glass. He placed the note before him.
	"I'm sorry for the delay, miss," he said evenly. "Have you an account with 
us?"
	Emma shook her head.
	"Ordinarily we'd be pleased to accommodate you, miss, but I'm afraid we've 
had a rather extraordinary demand for cash, you see. We've barely enough to 
provide for our regular customers. If you could bring this back in a day or two I'm 
certain we shall be able to assist you." He slid the bill under the glass, the gesture 
immaculate and final, suitable either for a polite dismissal or the aftermath of the 
signing of a death warrant.
	Emma retrieved her note and returned it to her pocket. "Ta," she said, and 
turned to leave the bank.
	It was as she'd imagined, she considered as she stepped unthinking into the 
rain once more. Ernst Gemmhardt had been robbed of perhaps ten-thousand quid, 
and he'd simply stopped by the local NatWest and ordered up some more. The 
bank that understands, she mused, smiling, uncertain whether the slogan applied to 
this particular bank.
	One could probably buy most of Aberteyrnas with ten grand – she wondered 
for a time why the German required all that cash. The answer might well have 
been obvious, she decided after considering the problem for a moment. She 
hurried her pace down the high street, certain now where she was going. The Red 
Lion would look dismal in this weather.
	Ernst Gemmhardt was standing before his hired car when she came upon him. 
There was a particularly decrepit blue van parked beside it, its flanks beribboned 
with peeling yellow letters that she couldn't make out through the rain. A man in 
soiled overalls was crouched under the bonnet of the gray Vauxhall, clearly 
working on the engine. She moved silently through the trees at the edge of the car-
park, straining to catch the muffled words of the two men.
	"...really not meant to be working on hired cars, sir," the man under the bonnet 
was saying. "The car-hire companies get right stroppy when I work on their cars. 
This looks like some sort of ignition problem..."
	Ernst Gemmhardt seemed to retreat into his coat for a moment. He produced 
what she took to be several notes and proffered them to the mechanic, saying 
nothing. The man glanced at them for a moment before accepting them and stuffed 
them into one of countless pockets in his overalls. He returned to his task. A 
moment later he asked the German to get into the car and start it. The engine 
roared to life and he slammed the bonnet back into place. 
	The mechanic walked around to the side of the car. "I shouldn't worry about it 
now, sir," he said. "I imagine it were kids... they get bored this time of year, 
nothing much to do..."
	She heard Ernst Gemmhardt interrupt him, his voice muffled by the rain and 
the bleat of the engine.
	"Wire from your coil to your distributor was missing, sir," the mechanic 
explained in a mildly patronizing tone. "No way it could've gotten that way by 
itself. I'd reckon it were kids."
	Ernst Gemmhardt gestured dismissingly and rolled up the window of his car. 
The mechanic stepped back and the shapeless gray machine lurched forward, its 
gears grinding for a moment before it seemed to find its feet and flee the car-park. 
The mechanic watched it vanish into the storm before he returned to his van and 
followed it.
	She imagined the streets it would travel through Llannewydd as it made its 
way south. There were few other cars about, nothing to impede it save for the sea 
at the termination of its journey. She glanced at the car-park of the Red Lion, and 
then behind herself at the featureless ruin of the Poacher's Pocket just barely 
visible in the granite stillness of the weather. After a moment's consideration she 
decided to make for the hotel.
	Ernst Gemmhardt was almost a quarter of an hour returning. Perhaps he'd had 
words with the ferry pilot, she allowed. He hurled the car into the car-park, clearly 
enraged. She expected him to storm into the hotel, but for some time he remained 
in the car. She dared emerge from the trees, stepping uncertainly toward the car. 
The German was talking on a mobile telephone. He'd grown quite animated, 
waving the handset about in the cramped interior of the car as if he sought to 
strangle it. At length he pried it away from his face and stabbed at it, dropping it 
on the vacant seat beside himself.
	He flung the car door open unexpectedly and stepped out into the rain, this 
time unmindful of its assault on his comfort. She smiled at him as he passed her, 
certain that he'd take no notice of her. Through the corner of her eye she watched 
him enter the lobby of the Poacher's Pocket, imagining that its desk clerk was 
about to get a ragging-out for something he wouldn't understand.
	The abandoned car beckoned to her. She stepped quietly toward it, 
glancing about herself to be certain Ernst Gemmhardt hadn't suddenly 
changed his mind. The door to the driver's side proved to be unlocked. She 
smiled at this, thinking that if John Quick had not long since convinced her 
of the perfidy of automobiles and dissuaded her from owning one, she'd 
have certainly taken the trouble to lock hers. 
	The cast-off mobile telephone lay where Ernst Gemmhardt had discarded it, its 
keypad still illuminated. It was a tiny thing, barely large enough to span the 
distance between her lips and her ear. She lifted it uncertainly and pressed the 
SEND button, redialing the last number the German had called. The telephone 
beeped insanely and began to emit a ringing tone.
	"Hare and Hound, how may I help you?" it asked in a bored woman's voice. 
When Emma said nothing after a few moments the request was repeated. She 
pushed the END button and returned the telephone to the seat of the car.
	The rain seemed almost to caress her as she walked quickly across the car-park 
and regained the copse of trees that hid the Poacher's Pocket from the harbor 
beyond. What was Ernst Gemmhardt doing with himself now, she wondered. You 
thought you'd be safe on Aberteyrnas, she mused, and now you've awakened to 
find that it's become a cage.
	The German had been terrified the previous night, she recalled as she felt 
herself dissolve into the gloom of the woods. He'd not come from a world where 
the grotty reality of the street had ever confronted him and demanded his money. 
He'd been prepared to pay the mechanic whatever had been required to permit him 
to escape. He'd not anticipated the dimensions of his confinement, however.
	Whatever he'd come to Aberteyrnas for was not happening as he'd anticipated. 
In desperation he'd called someone at the Hare and Hound. She smiled at this. 
Allowing that he wasn't desperate for a more attractive car, there was little doubt 
as to who he'd called. What had he said to Teddy Barlow, she wondered. Sadly, 
the mobile telephone had not been empowered to repeat the conversation it had 
conveyed.
	She glanced along the rows of identical, featureless glass doors that opened 
onto identical featureless rooms, deciding at length that she'd located the one that 
Ernst Gemmhardt would be cowering within now – the one in which Teddy 
Barlow had very nearly ended her life and that of Gwen, she reminded herself 
sourly. The door was as dark as its fellows. Did frightened people hide in the dark, 
she wondered, or did they turn on every light in the room.
	"If you're not a drugs dealer," she speculated aloud to an imaginary Ernst 
Gemmhardt, "why didn't your mate Mister Barlow just tell me that so I'd not 
fancy blowing your head off? He's a bastard, but he's not a stupid bastard..."
	Perhaps predictably, she decided, no answer to her question was forthcoming. 
She glanced at the sky through the trees, at what she seemed to have chosen as the 
present dwelling of John Quick some days earlier. Several drops of rain assailed 
her eyes, blurring the tangle of branches before her.
	"You'd be on a plane home about now, John Quick," she said evenly. "You'd 
see the nasty little schemes of all these nasty little men and you'd want two 
countries and strong brick wall between you and them. At least, I fancy you 
would. Bugger me, but I'm already home."
	Ernst Gemmhardt would tell her nothing more this morning, she decided at 
length. John Quick was about as much help as he'd typically been of late. Teddy 
Barlow was no doubt warmer and more comfortable than she was. She brushed the 
rain from her face and sought a path among the trees, coming at length to the high 
street of Llannewydd and the beginning of a long slog back to the house. She 
imagined herself to have become waterlogged by the time she saw the ruined drive 
swim indistinctly before her, a mirage in the worsening storm.
	Gwen took her coat and seated her at the kitchen table, assembling the ritual 
objects of coffee before her. It had not occurred to her before that the coffee things 
included cream and sugar, as they always had, even though John Quick had 
fancied neither and had eventually distilled the taste for them from her as well. 
She struggled to suppress her shivering as she clutched at the coffee mug and blew 
the steam from its surface.
	"So, what do we know now?" Gwen asked cheerfully. The girl had been thick 
with questions that morning when she'd left for the village.
	Emma allowed one eye to focus on Gwen across the table. "It's raining," she 
replied flatly.
	Gwen shot her a reproving glance and poured herself a mug of coffee. She 
leaned back, clearly suggesting that she was prepared to wait for a more lucid 
reply to her question if needs be. Emma sought for shapes in the swirls of her 
coffee for a time before she recounted her travels of the morning. The effort of 
doing so seemed to rouse her from the sodden discomfort she'd been driven to by 
the storm. As she finished her tale she caught Gwen's eye and smiled. "So, what 
do we know now?" she asked, imitating the tone of Gwen's earlier question.
	Gwen's eyes narrowed, the girl clearly not having expected to be required 
participate in the mid-day entertainment. She paused for a moment, perhaps trying 
to recount the salient aspects of what she'd heard.
	"I should say that we know the German man's mates with Mister Barlow, he's 
filthy rich and he wants to get off Aberteyrnas worse than Chuck wanted to get off 
Di the last time they went to bed together," Gwen offered, grinning savagely. "I 
wouldn't think it's grounds to shoot him... if it was, there'd be bodies waist-deep 
down by the ferry docks. Everyone wants to be off Aberteyrnas after a time."
	Emma nodded, thinking as she did that the gesture seemed a lot like something 
John Quick might have used in speaking to her. "What don't we know?"
	Gwen frowned momentarily, clearly finding this question more troubling than 
the previous one. "I... I couldn't say. Why did Chuck fancy Di in the first place?"
	She allowed herself to be amused at this. "We don't know why someone hired 
John Quick to kill a whingeing little pratt who's likely to die of fright or heart 
failure without anyone's help and we don't know why Teddy Barlow still thinks 
he's a drugs dealer and wants to protect him none the less." 
	Gwen regarded her for a moment. The girl rose from her seat and returned with 
the coffee pot, refilling both cups. "Are we ever likely to know that?" she asked.
	Emma stared into the quiet decrepitude of the ceiling, tracing cracks in the 
plaster. "Perhaps we'll tie Mister Barlow to a chair and have it out of him that 
way," she suggested, as much to herself as to Gwen. She was disturbed by the 
rancor in her own words.
	She saw Gwen's eyes narrow, her expression become concerned. "Is that really 
what you're planning, ma'am?" she asked.
	She felt herself smile. The thought beckoned to another, a fragment of a week 
she rarely troubled herself to recall. She was not aware she'd begun speaking of it 
for a moment until Gwen's attention seemed inexplicably drawn from the coffee 
service.
	"John Quick brought me along to a job two years ago... it was in Marseilles. 
I'd not been there before, and when it was over he said we could spend a few days 
being proper tourists. He ran into someone he knew, some sort of policeman for 
the French law. Seems his daughter'd been kidnapped the day before. There were 
three terrorists in the nick... one of them being the brother of the kidnapper... and 
this policeman was to let them escape if he wanted to see his kid again."
	She glanced at Gwen for a moment, concerned that she might be boring the 
girl. Gwen smiled uncertainly.
	"He wasn't actually all that hard to find. John Quick turned up his flat by day's 
end... he was sitting in his kitchen with a glass of wine watching the telly when we 
walked in. He said John Quick could do what he liked, but if the bastard died no 
one would ever see the policeman's daughter again."
	"Did you tie him to a chair, then," Gwen asked.
	"For a time... John Quick went off to rummage around his flat. I'm... I'm afraid 
I got rather cross with him and broke his nose while John Quick was in the 
bedroom. I got a proper ragging-out for that. John Quick had other plans for him."
	She allowed herself to smile grimly, to imagine the day as it had been when 
they'd come across the ratty basement flat and the unpleasant, swarthy little man, 
half undressed and well into his second bottle of wine. She'd been shown a picture 
of the policeman's daughter. The girl had been a few days past her fifteenth 
birthday when she'd been abducted. She'd not even bothered to question the man 
as he'd twisted and cursed before her, his wrists and ankles bound to the chair he 
was sitting in. The Glock had seemed alive in her hands, a venomous pet she'd 
neglected to feed for too many hours. In the irrationality of her growing rage she'd 
decided that striking him with it would trouble John Quick less than shooting the 
kidnapper would have done.
	"John Quick found a pile of old rope and a plank somewhere in the garden 
behind his flat. We carried him into the loo and tied the rope around him... he 
looked rather like a mummy when he was done. John Quick had me fill the 
bathtub with water and put the plank in it. He laid the man on plank and ran the 
end of the rope around the faucet for the tub. When he let go of the rope, the man 
slid down the plank into the water. After a time he'd pull the rope and let him 
breath for a minute or two. Each time he let him go back into the water he waited a 
little longer."
	She heard her words grow diaphanous in the still of the kitchen, hearing again 
the muted splash of water spilling over the edge of the tub as the kidnapper had 
struggled, his choked breathing as he'd emerged once more into the stagnant air of 
the room. He'd lost his dinner after the second or third immersion, and the room 
had grown foul and still more oppressive. She'd been very near to losing her own. 
John Quick had sat in the chair the man had previously been bound to with the end 
of the rope in his hands, seemingly concerned with nothing save for the watch on 
his wrist. The man had ceased berating them with time, his sole concern seeming 
to be a renewed interest in breathing. He'd been an unhealthy shade of blue when 
at last he'd decided to resume speaking.
	"Did he... I mean, did you finally find out where the girl he'd kidnapped was?" 
Gwen asked, disturbing her reverie.
	She nodded, uncertain for a moment whether it was something to be proud of. 
"It took about half an hour. John Quick said that another few times into the tub 
and he would have most certainly drowned. She was in a trunk in a garage down 
near the harbor. She was alive... not in the best of shape, but she was alive."
	Gwen stared across the table at her until she met the girl's eyes. "Did you shoot 
him... the man who locked her up?" she asked, her voice barely a whisper.
	"No," she replied. "I would have, if it'd been my choice. John Quick locked 
him in the trunk and put it back where we'd found it. He never told anyone where 
it was, as far as I know. It was an old garage that no one seemed to be using. He 
might well still be there."
	At times the purposes of John Quick's lessons had been obvious enough. She'd 
spent some while on the airplane back to Manchester considering the likely 
purpose of this one. He might well have sent her on ahead before the whole 
revolting business had begun. That he'd not done so had suggested that he'd 
genuinely anticipated requiring her assistance. She considered now that it could 
also have been a proper lesson, an example of how singularly repulsive the people 
she was usually permitted to shoot from a distance were capable of being if she 
were forced to confront them up close.
	She'd spent a day imagining the policeman's daughter as she'd been in the 
photograph her father had removed from a frame on his desk and handed to John 
Quick, and the next year recalling her as she'd been when John Quick had lifted 
her from the trunk she'd lived in for two days. The tiny garage had stank of sweat 
and piss and fear as they'd opened it. The girl had been nude and barely conscious, 
forced to breath through a few dozen nail holes driven into the metal which had 
confined her. Her hands had been crusted with dried blood, presumably from her 
early attempts to claw her way out of her prison.
	The girl's eyes had fallen upon the kidnapper as John Quick had struggled to 
keep her on her feet. She'd screamed and thrown herself to the cracked concrete 
floor of the garage, pleading for her life. The kidnapper had muttered something in 
French and John Quick had buried his fist in the man's belly, flinging him against 
the wall of the building. Save for whatever he might have later pleaded into the 
darkness of his makeshift coffin, it was the last thing he'd said on this earth, she 
considered now.
	Their return to Wales had been another occasion of John Quick helping her get 
drunk, to stop the shaking which had overtaken her. She'd been consumed with 
anger, although she'd been a long while deciding who she'd been angry with. 
With a clarity of mind born of a bottle of whisky she eventually decided that it 
must have been directed at the man in the trunk.
	"What would you have done with him, girl?" John Quick had asked her.
	She'd considered this for a time. "I'd have cut off his right ball and offered to 
cut off his left one if he didn't tell me where the girl was," she'd proclaimed at 
length.
	This had clearly amused him. "Why is it that women always want to attack a 
man... in that particular bit of his anatomy?"
	"Makes your eyes water just thinking about it, doesn't it?" she'd suggested.
	He'd nodded his agreement and poured her another drink. She decided that she 
might well have enjoyed one more taste of that bottle now, and she found herself 
wishing that she'd not allowed herself to recall anything of those few days in 
France. Her assertion that she could have castrated the kidnapper had had more 
whiskey in its veins than blood, she was sure. John Quick had done what was 
necessary to save the abducted girl's life. She was certain as she glanced across 
the table at Gwen that she could not have done so.
	The conversation between them seemed to gutter, despite several attempts by 
Gwen to re-ignite it. She'd told Gwen more than the girl had wanted to hear, she 
considered dourly, and in an hour or a day Gwen would begin to be troubled by 
the ugliness of it. Perhaps Gwen would at last leave the house and find safety in 
Llannewydd, as she'd suggested a few days earlier.
	She took a more resolute interest in her coffee, which had become tepid and 
uninviting while she'd been speaking. She sipped it now, thinking it akin to the 
incense of penance, that she'd confessed her sins to someone who had no cause to 
wish to participate in the sacrament.
	Her coffee had grown quite cold by the time she was stirred from her thoughts 
once again. For a moment the sound seemed unreal, distant beyond her capacity to 
hear it. She glanced around the kitchen as Gwen got to her feet.
	"It's the front door, ma'am," Gwen explained.
	She forced herself to stare at the blackened doorway to the front hall. The 
house had its share of uninvited visitors in the summer months, most of them 
occasional imported Jehovah's Witnesses and tourists from the mainland pleading 
for a cup of water or the use of the telephone. None of them had yet weathered the 
coming of the storms, however. She rose warily and gestured for Gwen to remain 
where she was. A shape moved indistinctly behind the curtains that covered the 
window in the front door. Warily she stepped into the hall, conscious of its walls, 
of the difficulty in reaching the knife under her dress in such a confining space if 
she required it suddenly.
	The shape behind the curtains had coalesced into the form of a policeman long 
before she pulled the door toward her and peered around it. A growing curiosity 
touched her as the man attempted to smile disarmingly and asked her name.
	"Do you mind if we come in?" he requested mechanically.
	"Have I choice?" she replied.
	The policeman reached into his pocket and withdrew several folded sheets of 
paper. "I'm afraid not, miss. We've a warrant, you see."
	She hesitated for a moment before she stepped back and allowed the door to 
swing open before her. Four other officers stood on the landing behind the one 
who'd addressed her. Three of them were dressed in almost identical gray 
mackintoshes. The fourth had a constable's uniform, complete with its hat, which 
he removed as he entered the house. He seemed rather portly for a uniformed 
policeman.
	"May I ask what you're looking for, officer?" she inquired as the men pushed 
past her in the narrow hallway. It was a ritual question, she allowed, her lines in a 
minor drama that was played out hundreds of times a day on the mainland.
	"You needn't be troubled, miss," he assured her, his attention clearly on the 
details of the house around him. "This concerns your late employer, Mister... John 
Patrick Quick." He read the name from one of the papers in his hand. "We've 
reason to believe that he might have been involved in the sale and distribution of... 
of prohibited substances."
	She glanced away from him, allowing herself to smile. She'd made a point of 
noticing most of the police officers on Aberteyrnas over the years. John Quick had 
pointed out the man she was now confronting several seasons earlier. Save for the 
occasional plastic bag with suspicious contents confiscated from the lads who 
came across in the summer, this fellow had likely never encountered 'prohibited 
substances' in his life. He was no doubt far more concerned with minor thefts and 
violent marital disputes. He seemed distinctly uneasy in this house, she decided. 
As she watched, the three plain-clothes officers spread out around the ground floor 
while the one in uniform slipped quickly up the stairs.
	She watched one of them tread uncertainly into the sitting room and begin 
peering under the furniture. He was rather obese, and lowering himself to the 
carpet left his face flushed and his chest heaving. At length he produced a torch 
from somewhere and began flicking it about the shadows of the room. She 
imagined that he must be hoping to encounter a large red box with prominent 
yellow lettering which proclaimed 'prohibited substances inside.'
	The officer with the warrant seemed content to adopt a supervisory role. He 
occasionally gestured at one of his subordinates, who obediently scurried away to 
a different corner of the house. At length Emma saw Gwen emerge from the 
kitchen, the girl's expression lifeless and frightened. She wondered about the 
advisability of reassuring Gwen in front of the officer, ultimately deciding against 
it.
	The policemen searched for some while, saying nothing and obviously being 
very careful not to disturb anything. At length the uniformed constable descended 
the stairs and stepped quickly through the front door. He appeared to have arrived 
in a car of his own, as he drove off a moment later by himself. The officer before 
her called to his men, who obediently abandoned their search and returned to the 
front hall.
	"I'm very sorry to have troubled you, miss," he said to her in what she decided 
was his best institutional manner. "It appears that we were misinformed."
	"Aye," she agreed. "It appears. What made you think that John Quick would 
have anything to do with that lot?"
	The man coughed. "I understand that they discovered the remains of 
hypodermic needles... on the body, you understand."
	She felt her muscles grow taut, realizing that she'd all but permitted herself to 
forget the manner of John Quick's death. "I wonder who discovered that, officer," 
she said.
	The man looked momentarily perplexed. "I couldn't say, miss," he replied, his 
tone suggesting that he'd not had cause to consider the matter. She decided to see 
what else he might not have considered.
	"Have you lot found the yobs who knackered the ferry," she asked.
	The man's features grew minutely more weary, as if he'd become inured to 
being asked such a question at regular intervals. "No, miss, I'm afraid we've not 
had much luck in that matter," he replied woodenly.
	"It's curious, though, wouldn't you say?" she pressed him.
	"About the ferry, miss?" 
	"About your warrant."
	The man regarded her, his eyes narrowing. "I'm afraid I don't understand."
	"Is there a judge on Aberteyrnas?" she asked.
	The officer shook his head, his expression still puzzled. She considered this 
fleetingly. He genuinely didn't understand the deception that was growing 
crumpled and sweaty in his hand. 
	"Do you not think it odd that there was someone to sign that?" she asked, 
gesturing to the papers.
	"Warrants are always handled on the mainland, miss," he explained patiently.
	"Without the ferry?"
	His eyes flashed and he glanced reproachfully at the warrant. He seemed about 
to unfold it and scrutinize its signature. She watched his features soften, his 
expression become more puzzled. As if coming to a pivotal conclusion, he quickly 
returned the papers to an inside pocket of his coat and bade her good day. He left 
without being formally shown the door.
	Gwen approached her a moment later, her step uncertain. She glanced at the 
door as if she were concerned that the police might be planning to break it down 
any moment. Emma smiled, thinking it acutely unfair that Gwen should be 
troubled by the performance they both just witnessed.
	"Are... are we to be arrested, ma'am," the girl asked, her voice near to 
shattering.
	She smiled. "No," she replied. "I can't say exactly what they were here for, but 
it had nothing to do with arresting anyone."
	She glanced again at the stairs leading to the second floor of the house, forcing 
herself to imagine the features of the constable. He'd seemed rather old for a 
uniformed officer, she decided, and she could not recall seeing him about the 
streets of Llannewydd. She stepped quickly to the foot of the stairs, conscious of 
Gwen following her. The carpet that ran up the stairs glistened with patches of 
moisture where the constable's shoes had touched it. 
	The stairs had damp spots up to the second floor landing. She ran her hand 
carefully across the uneven carpet, deciding at length that the constable had come 
no further. He'd gone directly to John Quick's office, and had visited none of the 
other rooms. Perhaps it was fortunate that he'd not seen fit to investigate her 
bedroom, she decided wryly. The contents of her knicker-drawer might have 
required some explaining.
	The office appeared untouched. She knelt down and continued examining the 
floor for indications of wet footprints. The constable seemed to have walked to the 
desk, spent some while beside and behind it and then walked to the door of John 
Quick's locked room. She detected two distinct footprints before the locked door, 
indicating that the man had stood beside the door, rather than facing it. She tried 
the handle and found that it was still locked. The position seemed a singularly 
awkward one from which to attempt to pick a lock.
	She returned to the desk, conscious of Gwen's eyes upon her. It took her 
almost a minute of silent contemplation to appreciate what was amiss. The papers 
that seemed to flood from the surface of John Quick's desk hadn't been disturbed. 
The drawers were also as she recalled leaving them, with the center one partially 
open from two days earlier when she'd sought for a magnifying glass. She was 
about to sit at the desk when she realized that its chair had been pushed under it, 
something that she'd not done. She smiled at this, deciding that there were 
elements of her slothfulness which had their uses.
	The constable hadn't been particularly careful, she considered. He might well 
have removed his shoes when he'd entered the house and subsequently left no 
trace of where he'd been. John Quick had taught her enough about searching a 
room to know that oversights like the misplaced chair were easily avoided. He had 
clearly wanted to see the room from behind the chair, she decided, probably so he 
could have the light of the window directly behind him. She stood where she 
imagined he'd stood, wondering what he'd been looking for. 
	"Is anything missing, ma'am?" Gwen asked, disturbing the conspiratorial 
silence of the room.
	"No," she mused, as much to herself as in reply to Gwen's question. "That's 
the curious part. He doesn't appear to have been particularly interested in 
searching."
	"Perhaps he decided that there was nothing in here after all," Gwen suggested.
	"Perhaps," she agreed, certain that the reality of the constable's time in this 
room must be otherwise. "I fancy he came here for some other purpose... they all 
did."
	"I don't understand, ma'am," Gwen said.
	She paused, considering how much of what she'd concluded over the previous 
ten minutes might make coherent sense if it were spoken aloud. "They weren't 
searching for anything," she began. "That, and the one up here wasn't a 
policeman."
	Gwen frowned, clearly not believing her.
	"They arrived with a made-up warrant... it was obviously made up, but there 
were five of them and two of us, so it didn't matter. Four of them pretended to 
search the ground floor, with one man to take care of the whole top two floors. He 
didn't, though... he only came to this room, and then he doesn't really seem to 
have been looking for anything. He came across a locked door and didn't bother 
calling down to have someone unlock it for him so he could search inside. He just 
left it. As soon as he came back downstairs, the other officers stopped searching 
and they all went off."
	"Perhaps they were just very bad at their jobs," Gwen offered, a note of 
amusement in her voice.
	"I should say that Mister Barlow arranged it... he had his superiors telephone 
their superiors and shout at enough of the higher-ups at the local nick to let one of 
his lads pretend to be a constable. They didn't want a look around at all... there 
wasn't really any point, as Mister Barlow had free run of the place until a few days 
ago. They wanted one of his little helpers to have five or ten minutes alone in this 
room, although I can't imagine why."
	She stepped out from behind the desk, hoping that perhaps a different 
perspective would grant her some insight into the movements of the constable. 
Nothing occurred to her. At length she heard Gwen shuffle uncomfortably, clearly 
wishing to say something. Emma turned to face her.
	"Begging your pardon, ma'am," Gwen began in a harsh whisper, "but I fancy I 
might know why the constable wanted to come up here. Perhaps he came to plant 
a... bug, in the room. A microphone, so he could listen to whatever's said in here."
	She smiled at this, momentarily disturbed that the thought hadn't occurred to 
her. It was unlikely, she allowed, but she decided that it was worth investigating if 
only to please Gwen. The girl must feel even more at sea than she herself did in 
the light of recent events, she decided.
	"It's a thought," she allowed. "Shall we check the room for bugs, then?"
	Gwen appeared to consider this. "I thought they were tiny little things that you 
couldn't actually find," she began, her voice still barely audible. "That's the idea 
of them."
	"John Quick knew quite a lot about such things," Emma said, allowing herself 
to be amused by Gwen's concern. "In order for a bug to work, it has to be able to 
get what it hears out of the room and over to wherever the person listening to it 
might be. There are two ways to do that... the bug can be connected to a wire 
leading out of the room, or it can be a little wireless transmitter."
	In fact, this explanation was considerably oversimplified, she knew, although it 
would serve for the present. There were numerous other ways to eavesdrop on a 
conversation, although none of them would have required that the constable gain 
entry to the room as he'd done.
	"The policeman didn't use a bug with a wire," she continued. "There wasn't 
time to install one and hide the wire, run it out to the garden and such. If he came 
here to bug this room, he would've had to have used a wireless transmitter."
	Gwen seemed to understand this bit of reasoning, and she nodded her 
agreement.
	Emma stepped across the room to one of the wooden cabinets in the corner. 
She was several minutes locating an elaborate portable radio that John Quick had 
shown her several years earlier. Gwen seemed curious that she might know how to 
operate such a thing.
	"Is there a bug detector hidden in there?" Gwen asked, regarding the radio.
	"This is a bug detector," she said, switching the radio on. Remarkably, its 
batteries seemed to have survived its long dormancy. "The bug... if there is a bug... 
is a little transmitter that transmits whatever it hears. When it's tuned to the same 
frequency as the bug, the radio will pick up what the bug transmits. The bug will 
pick up what the radio hears and transmit it again. It keeps going around and 
around until it sounds like a cat being trodden on."
	Gwen seemed to enjoy the image. "How does it know where to listen for bugs, 
then?" she asked. 
	"It doesn't," Emma replied. She placed the radio on John Quick's desk and 
seated herself before it. With an almost maddening lassitude she began to search 
through its bands, as John Quick had taught her. The process was protracted by 
Gwen occasionally hearing snatches of songs she liked and asking to hear the rest 
of them. 
	The afternoon dragged languidly toward evening, the room growing alternately 
thick with the hiss of static and then riotous with shouts of music or garbled voices 
in languages she couldn't identify. Nothing sounded like what she recalled a bug 
feeding back should do. At length she switched the radio off and leant back in her 
chair. Gwen seemed not to have been unduly disappointed by the failure of her 
original theory, and postulated several other still less likely ones.
	She felt the shadows of evening begin to embrace her, thinking that she might 
well have summoned the energy to rise from her chair and do something more 
than contemplate the possibility of switching on a lamp. Gwen had grown silent, 
and she became conscious of the girl watching her. The house seemed a fortress 
against whatever intrigues lay beyond its walls. Even the rain sounded distant.
	She heard the noise of a car in the drive without appreciating it as anything 
more than a variation on the drumming of the rain on the slates one floor 
overhead. Gwen appeared far more disturbed by it for a moment than she herself 
was. She watched the girl rise to her feet, struggling to goad her senses back into 
the harsh daylight of reason.
	"Has the law returned?" she inquired absently, thinking as she did that the 
prospect should have caused her far more concern. The law was not the law, she 
reminded herself, and at least one of its members was in the employ of a man 
who'd probably intended to kill her on at least two occasions of late. Gwen ran 
from the room and across the landing into Emma's bedroom to have a proper view 
of the approach to the house.
	"I shouldn't think it's the law unless the law's being paid better than any of us 
thought," Gwen called back. "I've not heard of them driving Jags."
	She smiled at this, wondering what Doctor McKie might want at this time of 
the day. He should be home with his family having tea and complaining about the 
rot on the telly. He'd regarded her warning about the dangers surrounding her 
about as seriously as Gwen had done, she decided as she stepped quickly to the 
stairs.
	Doctor McKie smiled uncertainly at her as she opened the door for him, 
something she could not recall seeing him do before. He seemed almost 
apologetic. He appeared to notice Gwen behind her after a few moments and 
inquired after her well-being. She thanked him for seeing to her the previous day 
and quickly disappeared into the kitchen.
	"Can I offer you a drink?" Emma asked, taken by the apprehension in the 
doctor's voice. Clearly he'd not come to check in on Gwen.
	"No, thank you," he replied as he struggled out of his coat. She took it from 
him and found a place to hang it. "I wonder if I might have a word with you."
	"Aye," she replied. "Have as many as you like."
	He nodded, as if refusing to be put at his ease. "Would you mind if we went 
somewhere... somewhere private. Perhaps John's old office."
	She turned toward the stairs. It would probably not do to repeat Gwen's 
concern that the room might have been bugged, she thought, smiling as he 
followed her. She could not recall seeing him quite so uncomfortable, wondering 
again what had brought him to the house. She entered the room, finding the light 
switch, and resumed her place behind the desk, thinking that she might begin to 
feel like somebody's clerk if this continued much longer. The doctor took what 
had been Gwen's seat.
	"I'm sorry to disturb you, my dear," he began haltingly. "There's been... a 
rather unfortunate occurrence, and I'm afraid I need your assistance. It's the sort 
of thing I might have asked John about, before..." He let his words trail off as he 
reached into his jacket and withdrew a small polythene bag. "I'm hoping that John 
taught you enough about... these matters... that you can confirm what this is."
	She accepted the bag from him and held it to the light. "I should say it's a 
bullet, doctor," she said, deciding as she did that her flippancy was probably 
uncalled-for. He didn't seem to notice it.
	"I imagine what I should have said was I'd like you to confirm where it's come 
from. You told me the other day that your young man... had shot at you. I suspect 
this bullet has come from the same gun... I need you to assist me..."
	She regarded the contents of the bag for a moment longer. "No," she said at 
length, "I wouldn't think Mister Barlow's gun fired this. He has a twenty-five 
caliber Beretta. This is a much larger bullet... I should say it's a nine millimeter, 
although it's an odd one."
	The Doctor seemed to slump in his chair. "Are you certain?" he inquired.
	"I'm certain it's not from Mister Barlow's Beretta," she replied. "Can I take it 
out of the bag?"
	The doctor hesitated. "I'd rather you didn't," he said. "I probably shouldn't be 
showing you this at all... there would be a considerable row if it were found out 
that fingers other than my own had been handling it."
	She smiled and rose from the desk. A moment later she returned with John 
Quick's microscope and a pair of jeweler's gloves of the sort she'd worn the night 
she'd searched Ernst Gemmhardt's hotel room. The doctor smiled and gestured at 
the bag.
	She was a long while peering at the bullet and comparing what she saw to the 
pictures in Brigham and Dobbs. This bullet was rather more of a problem than the 
one from Teddy Barlow's Beretta had been, she realized. She fetched a scale and 
weighed it, discovering that it was slightly lighter than it should have been for a 
conventional nine millimeter round. It was not sufficiently deformed to account 
for the discrepancy in its weight. It took her over half an hour to determine what 
sort of gun had fired it. Doctor McKie lit several cigarettes during the interval, and 
the air in the office had grown cindery and oppressive by the time she spoke to 
him again.
 	"Can I ask you who was shot with this?" she inquired at length, looking up 
from the microscope.
	Doctor McKie's eyes narrowed. "I don't recall saying that anyone had been 
shot," he said warily.
	She sighed, deciding that he probably had reasonable cause to suspect her. 
"There are traces of blood in the rifling of the bullet," she explained. "Besides, I 
hardly think you'd have been involved if it had been found on the beach."
	He smiled wearily. "One of the fisherman was found dead this morning... Peter 
Llewellyn, I believe his name was. Some of his mates came across him on his 
boat."
	"One shot, through the heart?" she asked.
	He nodded, his expression still distantly concerned.
	"Bullets deform when they hit solid objects, doctor," she said, removing the 
one before her from the microscope and returning it to its bag. Gratefully she 
peeled off her gloves. "If you fire one into a tank of water, it will hardly deform at 
all. If you fire one into a wall at close range, it will barely look like a bullet. 
People are mostly water... they don't trouble bullets very much."
	He again nodded his agreement, and she continued. "Your bullet is hardly 
deformed at all unless you look at it properly. One side of it's been flattened, as if 
it had been fired through an opening and struck something solid on the way past. I 
should say the opening was the space between Peter Llewellyn's ribs."
	"That's very good, my dear," the doctor said, reaching across the desk to 
retrieve the polythene bag. "If this sort of thing keeps up perhaps the local police 
would like to hire you on. Is there anything else you can tell me about it?"
	"As nearly as I can tell it was fired from a nine millimeter Makarov. The rifling 
on the bullet is rather sloppy, suggesting that the Makarov in question was 
manufactured in East Germany, rather than in Russia. It's a rather peculiar gun... it 
uses special low-velocity shells and isn't particularly accurate. Especially not this 
one. This one's quite old, and it hasn't been well looked after."
	"Would I be correct in assuming that there aren't many such weapons about?"
	She considered this. "You'd have been correct a few years ago. There's 
something of a rage for them now... they're really rather dreadful guns, and the 
soldiers and whatnot who had them have been happy to sell them to tourists and 
collectors. They have a Soviet star molded into the handgrip... it makes them very 
popular. I should think there are hundreds of them in Britain, brought over from 
Germany."
	Doctor McKie signed. "So this could have been done by anyone... someone 
from the mainland playing with a souvenir?"
	"No," she replied. "To begin with, a well-made Makarov that's been properly 
looked after has a range of about thirty yards. However, it uses those low-velocity 
shells, so that's thirty yards on a calm day. It was pissing down rain and blowing 
up a gale this morning, as I recall, and as I said, this gun's not been taken care of. 
Whoever shot your sailor was practically on top of him."
	"Recalling some of the lectures John Quick used to embark upon over drinks, 
that seems a rather poor choice of guns to me," the doctor observed.
	"Aye," she agreed, nodding. "That's the other thing about that bullet. In 
addition to the rifling marks, it has very faint scratches on it that suggest it was 
fired from a gun with a silencer. It was a proper silencer, too... not a bit of water 
pipe stuffed with iron wool and metal washers. As I understand it, one of the few 
good reasons for owning a gun like a Makarov is that it fires slow rounds and 
works well with a silencer."
	The doctor regarded her curiously for a moment. "I believe you're suggesting 
that Peter Llewellyn was killed by a professional assassin," he offered at length.
	"I'm not certain what I'm suggesting," she said. Her thoughts scrambled, 
recalling the odd, malevolent shape of the bullet as she'd regarded it though the 
microscope. Without the indication of a silencer she might well have been able to 
dismiss it as having come from someone's prohibited toy, having nothing to do 
with her. Certainly such things had occurred from time to time during the summer 
– mainlanders brought all manner of unpleasant little surprises across with them. 
The silencer was the truly nasty bit, she decided. It transformed the gun from a 
relic into a well chosen instrument, something that John Quick might have 
selected. Such a gun would be untraceable through the current bedlam of East 
Germany's bureaucracy. Most police forces would have had some difficulty 
discerning what it was. It would also be inaudible five feet away in the storms of 
Aberteyrnas."
	"The troubling thing about the gun isn't who used it, but who he used it on," 
she continued. "The man who fired it must have planned to use it, as he'd have 
had to attach the silencer to it earlier. It's quite a bulky thing, a pistol and a 
silencer. He was very close to the fisherman, but he had time to get the gun out. 
The fisherman knew who he was, and he either wasn't expecting the gun or he was 
busy doing something else."
	She spoke with Doctor McKie for some while longer, but there seemed little 
more she could offer him. She'd no doubt magnified the complexity of the 
problem he'd brought to her, rather than solving it. Perhaps he'd sought to shield 
her from the machinations of Teddy Barlow, she allowed, imagining himself 
capable of having the little bastard arrested on the evidence of the pistol bullet. It 
was a pleasing thought, however vastly removed from reality it might have been. 
In time she led him back down the stairs and showed him out. She returned to the 
office for want of anywhere better to sit and think. Gwen brought her coffee and 
quickly left.
	It seemed inescapable that the gun which had killed Peter Llewellyn had been 
owned by Ernst Gemmhardt, she reasoned. In a few hours, she knew, she would 
begin to appreciate that she was in part responsible for the man's death, that she'd 
terrorized the German to the point of desperation. She forced herself not to 
consider it now. Clearly Ernst Gemmhardt, upon finding himself unable to leave 
Aberteyrnas by conventional means, had visited one of the island's pubs 
frequented by fishermen and had offered Peter Llewellyn some substantial portion 
of his cache of notes to take him across to the mainland. The money had probably 
been all but impossible to refuse in the warmth of the pub, but the man must have 
had second thoughts when they'd met on his boat. She'd seen those tiny craft 
lumbering through the swells on calm days – John Quick had maintained that they 
were all but uncontrollable on a rough sea. The sea that morning would easily 
have swamped one had its owner been foolish enough to leave the harbor.
	Ernst Gemmhardt would have been quite enraged by then, she considered, and 
he was probably of no mind to be denied his salvation for a second time. This time 
he'd brought a gun to make sure nothing went wrong. Perhaps he'd intended to 
use it in any case once he reached the mainland, to be certain that the fisherman 
couldn't tell his pursuers where he'd gone. She allowed that she was uncertain 
who might be pursuing him beside herself.
	She sipped her coffee, glancing about the room. At length her eyes lit on the 
door to John Quick's secret armory. That had puzzled her, hours earlier, she 
recalled. She walked uncertainly over to it and stood where the constable had 
stood. She bent over and pretended to pick the lock. The position was ridiculously 
uncomfortable.
	"He probably wasn't trying to pick the lock, was he, John Quick?" she asked 
the empty room. She stood upright again. There was nothing remarkable before 
her. The remarkable bit, the locked door, was to her left. Right beside her ear, she 
realized, cursing under her breath. She felt about in the pocket of her dress for her 
key to the room, suddenly angry with herself. The door swung back and she 
stabbed her entry code into the keypad behind it. The tiny room was as she'd left 
it, as she'd been certain it would be. The constable hadn't defeated John Quick's 
elaborate lock, but she was sure that he'd fathomed at least one of the room's 
secrets. The light overhead flickered to life as she strode to the FAX machine.
	The wire basket dangling over the edge of the desk was empty. She stabbed at 
the buttons of the FAX machine, calling for its log. A sheet of paper slid from it and 
dropped into the basket. It indicated that an incomplete call had been received by 
the machine at 2:17 that afternoon. She was reasonably certain that it had occurred 
during the time when the constable had been alone in the office.
	The man had been looking for the FAX machine. He'd been unable to enter the 
locked room so he'd telephoned Teddy Barlow or someone else in his employ and 
had them place a call to it. Then he'd stood with his ear to the door to see if the 
machine's ringing did indeed emanate from the locked room.
	She dropped the log sheet into the wastepaper basket beneath its desk without 
thinking. She was almost out of the room before she realized that it – or rather, the 
earlier log – was probably what the constable had been after. The logs would have 
told Teddy Barlow how much contact she'd had with the German authorities 
who'd originally contracted with John Quick to kill Ernst Gemmhardt. She 
gathered up the crumpled pages and bore them to a metal wastepaper basket 
beside John Quick's desk which he reserved for potentially traitorous sheets of 
paper. With some difficulty she located a box of matches in one of the desk 
drawers and burned the lot.
 	Damn, she thought, stepping away from the desk to avoid the acrid smoke. She 
might have preferred something as simple as a bug in the office. There seemed 
little that she'd done of late which wasn't subject to someone's scrutiny. Was 
Teddy Barlow watching her now, she wondered. Feeling rather foolish even as she 
did so, she thrust two fingers into the air toward an imaginary television camera 
and strode from the room.




Own a printed, bound copy of this book. 

You can order on line at http://www.StevenWilliamRimmer.com – click on SHOP – or 
call our toll-free order desk at 1-800-263-1138. 




6


Tuesday, October 10, 1989
Between Milan and Novara, Italy

He watched the policeman gesture wearily, smiling through a mouth of rotted 
teeth. Returning the smile he waved dismissingly at the officer and started the car. 
The engine caught immediately and he eased back onto the highway. The 
uniformed man began to diminish in the wing mirror, becoming a tiny stick figure 
before he fused with the growing darkness of evening. He heard himself exhale, 
realizing that he fully expected the officer to change his mind at last and pursue 
him. No lights exploded in the darkness behind him as he shifted the car through 
its gears, listening to the nasal roar of its engine, and at length he permitted 
himself to relax.
	He glanced at the girl in the passenger seat. Her head moved imperceptibly in 
the gloom, her face a strange, alien mask of oversized sunglasses and a scarf. She 
smiled fleetingly, her expression replaced almost instantly with a grimace of pain 
as she shifted in her seat.
	"That went rather well," she breathed. "You didn't say you spoke Italian."
	"Didn't I?"
	"What did you say to him, then?" she inquired. Her voice had acquired an 
uncomfortable rasp over the previous hour or so. For a long while she'd been 
reluctant to speak at all.
	"Not a lot," he replied. "He was looking for an Englishman in a hired car, not 
an Italian in an Italian car. He didn't even ask for my driving license."
	"It's a shame, that, with what it cost. How do you come to speak Italian?"
	He allowed himself to smile, glancing at the dashboard of the unfamiliar car. 
He was doing well over a hundred and fifty kilometers an hour, he noticed. Such 
speeds were hardly unusual on rural highways in Italy, but he decided that he 
wanted no further brushes with the law this day. He eased off the accelerator and 
the car reluctantly slowed.
	"I lived with a woman for several years," he replied at length, deciding that she 
would probably insist on his answering if he attempted to evade her question. "She 
spoke no English."
	She seemed to consider this. "Wouldn't that be rather difficult... meeting 
someone and having it off with them and such if you couldn't actually say 
anything first?"
	He allowed himself to laugh. "I should think it would be an improvement on 
the usual way of it."
	"So she taught you Italian... after?"
	"Italian's not all that different from Latin, actually," he suggested, recalling 
again the face of the woman who'd first suggested the observation to him. She'd 
had a singularly unusual smile, he decided now, and her voice had been musical 
and alluring even before he'd learned what she'd been speaking of.
	"Do you speak Latin as well?" she asked.
	He turned to face her. "One does not survive a decent English public school 
without learning to speak Latin, my girl," he said solemnly.
	"Say something in it then," she demanded.
	He considered this for a moment. The forged driving license he'd been 
prepared to show to the policeman a few minutes earlier was resting on the 
dashboard before him. He picked it up and gestured to her with it. "Hoc nomen 
meum verm non est," he said.
	"And what did that mean?"
	"This isn't my real name."
	She laughed for an instant and then clutched at her leg, cursing under her 
breath. He watched her double over, feeling awkward as he sat beside her, unable 
to assist her. With a languid, painful grace she righted herself.
	"How is it?" he asked at length.
	She was a moment replying, and when she spoke again her voice was thick 
with anger. "Like a fucking bullet hole probably should be," she hissed. "It's my 
first, so I've nothing else to compare it with."
	He returned his attention to the road. It had been mercifully barren of traffic 
since they'd left Milan. She'd been silent for much of the early portion of their 
journey, rarely troubling herself to reply to him when he'd spoken to her. He 
decided that he preferred her as she was now, her incandescent rage at her 
predicament somehow attesting to her continued survival.
	His watch began to beep quietly within the sleeve of his jacket. After a 
moment of listening to it he withdrew it and silenced its alarm. "I think you'd best 
loosen the tourniquet again," he said.
	She stared at him for a moment, her expression suggesting that he had no place 
instructing her in such matters. He watched her feel about in the darkness for the 
hem of her dress.
	"What do you fancy a car like this is worth, John Quick?" she inquired archly.
	"I couldn't say." In fact, the owner of the Lamborghini had told him precisely 
what it was worth when he'd borrowed it, with an injunction to return it not 
excessively diminished in value.
	"I've seen them in magazines... I don't think a hundred thousand quid would 
be too far off. Do you not think your mate will object to my bleeding all over it?"
	"I'm quite certain he won't," he replied, turning again to face her. "Some years 
ago he bled all over mine."
	She was silent for some while. He watched her bare her leg and struggle with 
the knot in the cloth that bound it. "Was that your Rolls?" she asked, her attention 
now clearly focused on her injury.
	"No, it was long before the Rolls. It was a TR-3 Triumph."
	"I doesn't seem a fair trade for this," she observed, gesturing at the interior of 
the car.
	"He seemed to think so. He bled all the way from Zagreb to Bolzano. He's of 
the opinion that if the Triumph hadn't been handy for him to bleed in at the time, 
he wouldn't be here today to lend his Lamborghini about."
	She glanced at him for a moment, finally besting the knot that bound her leg. 
She muttered something that he couldn't make out above the muted howl of the 
engine and tore open the wrapper of a gauze bandage.
	"Has the bleeding slowed?" he asked.
	"I think it might have done," she allowed. "Perhaps I'm just running dry."
	She seemed to be searching for a dignified position to sit in whereby she could 
hold the bandage against her thigh. The seats of the unusual car he'd found for 
them were scant inches from its floor, and had proven to be decidedly 
uncomfortable after an hour or so of sitting in them. It lacked a rear seat entirely. 
Unspoken in its angular lines and wraith-like presence on the road was the 
assertion that no one with a wife and a few sprogs to carry about could afford such 
a toy.
	It was growing hot in the cramped interior of the car. Its owner had suggested 
it might – the huge engine that hurled it forward resided aft of the seats and 
partially extended into the passenger compartment. 
	"You've not actually explained how you came to have that," he said after 
several minutes, gesturing at the gauze patch on her leg that was gradually 
becoming dark and fluid as she clutched at it.
	Her expression changed imperceptibly, half lost in the withering remains of the 
early evening. For an instant he imagined it to be an acknowledgement of her 
earlier truculence and her refusal to speak of what had befallen her.
	"I thought the plan was that you were intended to shoot Orazio, rather than the 
other way around," he continued.
	"Was that his name?" she asked absently. He imagined her thoughts 
scrambling in the darkness of her seat, recalling the instant before the bullet had 
thrown her to the concrete floor of a Milan warehouse several hours earlier. "It all 
went as it was planned... he was dead by the time he did this."
	"Oh yes?"
	She allowed herself to smile at him. "It ran on rails, as they say," she continued 
quietly. "He came into the room just when you said he would, heard the shots 
when you did his friend, I came in, one through his left eye, quite pleased with 
myself..." She peeled away the bloody bandage and replaced it with a fresh one 
before she resumed speaking. "He was carrying... something automatic and nasty. 
Perhaps his hand contracted when I shot him... he sprayed the room with bullets as 
he fell. I... I imagine I should be grateful that I only got in the way of one of them, 
and then only just."
	The bullet had struck her a few inches above her left knee. It had inflicted little 
more than a flesh wound, but it had left her bleeding copiously and barely able to 
walk. He'd carried her over his shoulder as they'd hurried from the warehouse, a 
position she'd not been prepared to tolerate without considerable profanity. He'd 
cleaned and dressed the wound as best he'd been able, grateful at the time that the 
bullet had passed through her leg rather than remaining in it and requiring its 
removal. In reflection, he considered now, a small entry wound might have been 
preferable to the large gouge in her leg. The bullet had cost her a considerable 
volume of blood. She required stitches and proper medical attention.
	The problem was that this job hadn't involved shooting a drugs dealer or a 
terrorist with an unpronounceable name. Such men were found with all manner of 
hardware embedded in their remains and only occasionally made the papers. The 
recipient of his bullet, and indirectly of hers, was well known and respected in his 
circles. The police had found the bodies rather earlier than he might have wished, 
and he'd decided shortly after they'd eased through the narrow, seething avenues 
of Milan and out into the surrounding countryside that on this occasion he might 
have preferred that the Italian police were as incompetent and corrupt as the Italian 
government. Regrettably, the opposite was proving to be the case.
	She'd insisted that she could survive the journey west into France. He knew a 
doctor in Grenoble who would see to her injuries and not insist on knowing how 
she'd come by them.
	"It's something of a devil's choice, isn't it, John Quick?" she'd hissed through 
clenched teeth as he'd first attempted to dress her wound. "I can stay here and 
probably spend the next few years surviving on linguini in an Italian nick or I can 
go to France and probably bleed to death."
	"It would depend on how much you enjoy linguini," he'd offered, imagining 
her smiling at the cracked ceiling of her hotel room, his attention focused on her 
leg.
	"I believe I could grow sick of it fairly quickly," she'd replied, as he'd 
expected she would. She'd said little else, perhaps conscious of her decision and 
determined not to be seen to be moaning about its consequences.
	She cursed loudly enough to be heard over the noise of the engine, disturbing 
his contemplation of the events of the day. He'd experienced several such wounds, 
and while hers was hardly life threatening, he had a sense of the pain it was 
causing her. Cursing rarely did any appreciable measure of good.
	"That policeman," she said, still occupied with replacing her bandage, "he was 
after us, wasn't he?"
	He wondered if she might be more comfortable were he to lie to her. It seemed 
unlikely. "After whoever shot d'Angelico and Orazio, yes," he agreed.
	"Can I ask who they were?" she inquired, her voice suddenly almost shy. The 
emptiness of the car hung between them for a moment. He allowed that he was 
touched by the uncertainty of her request, wondering how she'd come to decide 
that such things were not her place to know. He considered his reply for a time 
before he spoke.
	"Mine was Giorgio d'Angelico," he began, surveying the empty road writhing 
before them. "He was a low-ranking bureaucrat for Bettino Craxi... quite a few 
years ago, now." He glanced at her, her expression suggesting that the latter name 
meant little to her. "Craxi's been the prime minister of Italy on and off for ages... 
he represents one of the far left silly parties. Mister d'Angelico probably started 
off polishing his boots, or some such, but he had his eye on grander things. He was 
being considered for the job of chief boot polisher along with one other fellow. 
Our lad decided to reduce the competition..."
	He saw her brow furl in the corner of his eye. "I imagine you're going to tell 
me that he shot the other bloke," she offered.
	He shook his head. "No, that's what was so unpleasant about him. He shot the 
other bloke's five year old daughter. Left his competition for the job not in the best 
of dispositions... and it wasn't much of a contest. Beginning of a remarkable 
career, that."
	"I don't understand."
	"In the past fifteen years Giorgio dealt with at least thirteen rivals that way... 
wives, children, mistresses. He was particularly fond of mistresses. When your 
secret girlfriend turns up dead it's just as shocking as the wife or the kids, but you 
can't very well tell anyone about it. Actually, in the past few years he's managed 
to cripple a few of them, rather than kill them. It's even more disruptive if they 
linger on for a few months."
	"I'd have thought that would've been something the police might have dealt 
with," she mused. "You've said they're usually able to manage when enough 
bodies turn up."
	"The problem was your fellow, Riccardo Orazio. He was some distant cousin 
of d'Angelico, as I recall. After the first two or three murders he did all the nasty 
bits. He had the intelligence of a packed lunch... the law had him down the nick 
several times, but they'd nothing much to charge him with and he was probably 
too stupid to properly understand the sorts of threats policemen make. All he knew 
was that cousin Giorgio patted him on the head and bought him dinner and a night 
with a whore every time he did as he was told. It was probably all he wanted out 
of life."
	She let herself fall back into the seat, her face turned toward the window beside 
her. The Italian countryside seemed to ooze past the car like oil, bubbling 
occasionally with points of light in the distance. He reminded himself for what he 
considered was probably the hundredth time that afternoon that the wound had 
always been inevitable, that he'd warned her on numerous occasions about the 
illusion of distance between herself and the people who received her bullets. One 
of them would eventually shoot back. She'd muttered something earlier about how 
she should probably be grateful that all she would suffer for this day's work was 
some discomfort and a scar. The observation had assuaged neither of them at the 
time, he was certain.
	"Is there anything I can do?" he asked, disturbing the reverberant silence of the 
car. He smiled to himself, uncertain how many times he'd asked the question of 
late.
	She let her head roll toward him, her eyes seeming to be out of focus, 
distracted. "It's kind of you to ask," she replied evenly. After a moment she 
returned her attention to the window.
	"I think you'll deserve a proper holiday when we reach France," he offered, 
suddenly wishing for something else to say. "A dress without bullet holes in it, at 
least... and anything else you fancy."
	She faced him once more, smiling faintly.
	"Anything at all?" she asked, a note of amusement in her voice.
	He nodded, curious at her sudden interest.
	"Could I drive the car for a while, then?"





Friday, October 9, 1992
Aberteyrnas

The morning's coffee had tasted cindery, crying out for something to be poured 
into its anthracite depths to still its rancor. Neither cream nor sugar had seemed 
suitable, and she didn't own a car from which to siphon some petrol. She smiled to 
herself at this. That had been one of John Quick's remarks, she recalled, upon first 
tasting Gwen's attempts at making coffee. She glared at the cup before her, 
wondering if a spoon would stand in it unassisted.
	The sitting room seemed impossibly quiet this morning, the rain having abated 
for a time. She dared not move, as if doing so might shatter the timeless world 
she'd come to inhabit. In the far distance of the house she imagined she could 
sense Gwen rattling about the kitchen, doing whatever it was that the girl occupied 
her days with. She herself had done those things once, however briefly, before 
John Quick had promoted her to greater responsibilities. She considered now that 
the knowledge of her employer's profession, the cracked, stained world he'd 
revealed to her, had been a rebirth of a sort for her. It hadn't been a particularly 
well-mannered rebirth, but she considered that she might have calculated the exact 
day of it, the time before she'd come to know of what she now regarded as reality, 
and the time after.
	Perhaps it had merely been a secondary loss of virginity, she mused.
	Such a loss had clearly not affected Gwen quite so profoundly. At various 
times she'd ascribed Gwen's respectable degree of composure to a character 
eroded by a lifetime on the craggy rocks of Aberteyrnas, or alternately to a lack of 
imagination, to the girl's inability to comprehend the true dimensions of the 
creatures which had been revealed to her. The former seemed overly poetic now, 
and the latter decidedly unkind.
	A vagrant scrap of breeze touched her with a whisper of the fragrance of her 
coffee. She glanced out the window beside the settee, as she'd been doing 
repeatedly for most of preceding hour, wondering absently what she expected to 
find.
	Something moved on the beach, and as she forced her eyes to resolve it she 
realized that it was probably the last thing she might have expected to see from her 
vantage. She stared at the distant figure, half lost in mist abandoned by the 
retreating storm. Ernst Gemmhardt had once more attired himself in his bright 
yellow jogging clothes and had gone for a run beside the surf.
	Her mind scrambled for an explanation to allow for his presence before her. 
She recalled again the cowering man who'd divested himself of a fortune whilst 
staring at her knife, and the shouting figure in the car-park of the Poacher's Pocket 
a day earlier, pleading with Teddy Barlow over a mobile phone. That man was 
now running unevenly along the wet sand and worn stones of the seaside as if he'd 
done nothing more untoward than arrive several months late for his holiday.
	She placed her coffee cup on a table beside her and got to her feet. The day 
wasn't starting off well, she decided, striding toward the hall.
	"What's up the beach that's still open?" she called toward the kitchen. There 
was a pendulous silence in the distant gloom before Gwen replied.
	"Which way up the beach?"
	"North... up toward Bryn Goleudy." 
	"Nothing since the tourists went," Gwen replied at length. The girl appeared in 
the doorway to the kitchen. She glanced away for an instant. "Except for that little 
cafe up near the lighthouse... some old lady runs it. I don't imagine she has much 
else to do up there."
	Emma smiled absently to herself, finding her coat at length in a jumble of 
others clinging to the coat-rack beside her. Bryn, she recalled, was Welsh for hill. 
She'd climbed this particular hill with Teddy Barlow the previous summer in 
search of somewhere bereft of tourists. It had been a taxing walk, and it would no 
doubt be very nearly shattering if one were jogging. Ernst Gemmhardt didn't seem 
the sort to fancy physical exertion for its own sake. She thanked Gwen and 
stepped through the front door.
	The German had long since vanished into the mist by the time she made the 
beach. She followed the shore for a time until it crystallized into outcroppings of 
granite and slate. A path led into the hills. There were clear footprints of trainers in 
the sand, erratic and heavily indented at the toes. Ernst Gemmhardt would have 
been puffing and coughing by this point, she imagined, struggling to keep running. 
She glanced into the mist and hurried along the path. It probably wouldn't do to 
actually encounter him here.
	It was a healthy climb to the crest of the hill, the path gradually becoming 
fused with the rocks and the meadows it traversed. She could hear the anxious 
lament of sheep in the far distance, louder now than the cadence of the ocean. She 
peered uneasily into the gloom, expecting the German to appear before her. In 
fact, when he finally did approach her she heard him long before he became 
visible, and she merely walked into the fog and the bracken until he'd passed her. 
She fancied that he looked to be well unto his nineties, his ill-defined features 
inlaid with sweat and exertion. His gaze seemed fixed on the ground before him, 
unconcerned that anyone else might be about this morning.
	There would be little purpose in following him, she decided, as he was clearly 
heading back to his hotel for a wash and a stiff drink. Allowing for his present 
gait, he'd barely had time for a cup of tea at the cafe Gwen had mentioned. She 
wondered what he'd come for. As soon as his uneven footfalls had expired into the 
fog she resumed her journey.
	The cafe was built into the ground floor of an old stone cottage clinging to the 
rocks that overlooked one of the less picturesque bits of the sea around 
Aberteyrnas. It had a signboard dangling above its door, but its paint was too 
badly rotted to allow her to make out what it might once have depicted. There was 
a slightly newer sign at the foot of the deserted car-park that advertised a bed and 
breakfast and hot meals. A red neon sign in one of the opaque, streaked windows 
announced that the cafe was open. The letter P flickered intermittently.
	The interior of the small building looked no less decrepit than its facade had 
been. She stared into what seemed to be a wood and lino cavern for several 
seconds before she realized that the counter had someone behind it. A woman who 
might well have been as ancient as the cottage itself glanced at her over the top of 
a ragged paperback novel and appeared to consider whether she was worth the 
trouble of setting her book down. After a moment more the woman smiled 
economically, the parchment of her flesh stretching minutely tighter over the 
carved alabaster bones beneath it.
	Emma stepped slowly into the room, glancing about its deserted tables and the 
faded pictures pinned to its walls. The smell of dust and discarded food cloyed at 
her. The woman smiled with minutely more enthusiasm, staring at her if she might 
be some apparition from the depths of the sea, or perhaps merely from Inland 
Revenue.
	"Good morning, dear," the woman said at length, her voice even more steeped 
in the Welsh of her ancestors than Barbara Owens' had been. Emma returned her 
smile, deciding that she'd seen the old woman's expression before on the face of 
John Quick's former lover. It was something the shopkeepers of Aberteyrnas 
reserved for the off season, a look of indulgent gratitude directed at whatever fates 
had blessed their establishments with more than one customer per day.
	"Good morning," Emma replied, approaching the counter. There were two 
stools before it, one with a decided list to port. Was the other in better nick, she 
wondered fleetingly, or merely more stealthy. She seated herself cautiously. 
"Could I have a cup of coffee?" she asked absently. "Black, please."
	The woman practically beamed at her for a moment and then seemed to catch 
herself, as if fearing that an undue exhibition of pleasure at her good fortune might 
seem ill-mannered. She stumbled unevenly toward an ancient chrome coffee urn, 
producing a cup from beneath the counter.
	At length the woman labored back toward her, the coffee clutched in both 
hands. Emma placed a pound coin on the counter. The woman accepted it, her 
expression suggesting that no change would be forthcoming unless it was 
requested.
	Emma tasted her coffee, deciding as she did that John Quick probably would 
have decried it in terms that would have left the old woman behind the counter in a 
mild coma. It was tepid and had the consistency of weak tea. Something more 
substantial seemed to be floating in it, but she decided not to hazard a positive 
identification.
	"Has anyone else been in here this morning?" Emma asked at length. The 
woman had returned to her book and seemed reluctant to be disturbed from it once 
more. "It's just that... I'm certain I saw someone as I was coming up the path."
	The woman's eyes sparkled with interest for a moment. "Aye," she replied, her 
voice almost wary.
	"He looked like a friend of the chap I keep house for... big man with gray hair 
and a German accent?"
	The woman seemed decidedly more interested now. "That's right... have you 
been looking for him?"
	Emma watched the woman's eyes narrow, wondering why the question might 
be of interest to someone this far out on the rocks of Aberteyrnas.
	"No," she said, pretending to be interested in her coffee. "He was up to the 
house in the summer, is all... quite a decent sort. He gave me ten quid one day for 
going into town to fetch a packet of fags for him. I was wondering if he might be 
coming for another visit, is all."
	The woman nodded conspiratorially, suddenly one native of the island to 
another in league against the mainlanders, Emma thought. "It's quite odd, actually. 
He's been coming in here every morning for... oh, gone a fortnight now at least. 
Cuppa and a biscuit and he's off... never says anything but has anyone been in 
looking for him. I tell him, I says, no one's been in except for you, I says. Doesn't 
seem too happy to hear that."
	"Isn't that curious," Emma mused, as much to herself as to the old woman.
	"You don't suppose he's waiting for your chap?" the woman offered.
	Emma presented to consider this. "I don't think so. I mean, he knows where 
the house is well enough." She finished her coffee in a final, desperate swallow 
and returned her cup to the counter before her.
	"Shall I tell him you were asking after him if he comes by tomorrow?" the 
woman inquired.
	"I wouldn't... perhaps he'll decide to come and stay at the house, and you'll not 
see him again."
	The woman's features clouded, clearly disturbed by the idea of her meager 
trade evaporating for so insubstantial a cause.
	Emma rose to leave. "Was he by yesterday, do you recall?" 
	The woman frowned, clearly having to claw through her memories of a jumble 
of days, each one very much like the one before it.
	"Oh, aye," she said at last. "I had to open a new box of biscuits as the old ones 
had taken mold. It's the air from the sea, you know."
	Emma smiled once more and bade the old woman good morning. She glanced 
around the gloom of the cafe and left, trying to imagine Ernst Gemmhardt hunched 
over one of its tables, gnawing on a moldy biscuit. Had he come for a run and a 
cup of tea before he'd shot the old sailor or after, she considered, enjoying the 
absurdity of the question for an instant. 
	She was well past John Quick's house before she caught up Ernst Gemmhardt 
on the beach. The German had clearly given up all pretense of jogging now and he 
was walking unevenly, his breathing still labored. Even from behind he had an air 
of defeat about him, she decided, or perhaps of impotence. His yellow clothes 
were easy to keep an eye on, even through the swelling fog of the morning. Her 
own coat, she considered, was almost the color of fog – it would have been very 
clever to have chosen it for its ability to hide her in the traditional weather of 
Aberteyrnas, had she in fact done so. She stayed well behind the stumbling figure, 
certain that he'd not notice her even if he chose to turn suddenly.
	It was clear that he was returning to his hotel long before he left the beach and 
clambered over the sea wall to the high street of Llannewydd. He seemed totally 
shattered by the time he embraced the lobby doors of the Poacher's Pocket and 
vanished into the comforting gloom they contained. She stepped into the trees at 
the periphery of the car-park, locating a rock to sit on from which she could 
observe the lobby door and the German's gray Vauxhall. It had begun to rain 
during her journey back from Bryn Goleudy, she noticed, wondering that it had 
taken her so long to do so.
	When Ernst Gemmhardt again appeared, he'd shed his running clothes for the 
tailored gray suit she was accustomed to seeing him in. His clothes seemed to have 
pushed some of his stuffing back into him as well, she considered as she watched 
him walk to his car. She glanced at her watch. It was just gone ten, and almost 
nothing on Aberteyrnas would be open. Are you going to have a natter with Mister 
Barlow, she wondered, or is it to be another quarter hour spent ragging out the 
ferry pilot? The car shrieked to life and lunged from the car-park a moment later, 
disappearing into the fog.
	She was still considering where it might be bound when it appeared in the car-
park of the Red Lion, twenty yards away. Perhaps the German had feared spoiling 
his suit in the rain, or perhaps he still harbored unpleasant memories of what had 
transpired in the intervening field. A tiny Ernst Gemmhardt emerged from his car 
and entered the pub.
	Confronted with a choice between the ploughman's lunch and two fingers of 
Glenfiddich, she considered, I suspect you'll probably let the ploughman fend for 
himself. She got to her feet and walked quickly through the trees until she 
emerged at the rear of the hotel.
	"What do you expect to find, girl," she imagined John Quick asking her archly. 
	"I don't expect to find anything," she imagined herself replying.
	"Let me see if I understand this... you're about to put yourself at risk once 
again and you don't even know why."
	She glanced at the sky, reproaching herself for doing so. "I'll bet you a fiver 
there's no risk at all this time, John Quick," she whispered. "I don't fancy I'm 
expected."
	The lock at the rear door of the Poacher's Pocket yielded to her as it had done 
previously. She decided that she missed Gwen's appreciation of her performance 
of picking it. She slipped into the hushed interior of the hotel, cautious lest she 
encounter a maid making up the rooms. It seemed an unlikely prospect, she 
decided in reflection. The paucity of cars in the car-park suggested a 
corresponding paucity of guests.
 	The door to room 127 was as featureless as it had been when last she'd 
regarded it. It seemed as if it should bear some witness to the violence which had 
transpired behind it. She lacked a pair of the jeweler's gloves she'd worn when 
last she'd picked its lock, and she have to content herself with wiping the door 
handle with the sleeve of her coat when she was done with it. On this occasion, 
she was certain, there would be little cause to touch anything beyond it.
	The room was stagnant, the air leaden and smelling distantly of furniture polish 
and cleaner. She glanced into the bathroom – there were several diminutive cakes 
of soap and a folded facecloth beside the sink, a stack of towels on a shelf beside 
the bathtub, all unused. The beds were made, everything set to rights. No one had 
stayed in the room for several days at least, she was certain.
	She smiled, pleased with herself for an instant. There was a large, gold-framed 
landscape on the wall facing the beds. It had been missing on the night she'd last 
come here. She took two facecloths from the bathroom and used them to lift it 
from the wall.
	The spot of paint was initially difficult to find – whoever had repaired the wall 
behind the picture had done a workmanlike job of it. She eventually located it an 
inch or so below the picture hook. It covered a tiny dot of fresh plaster.
	Teddy Barlow had either watched her through a fiber optic telescope or 
listened to her through a nailhead microphone as she'd searched this room, she 
realized as she replaced the picture. Someone in his employ had been answering 
the hotel's telephone when she'd rung up pretending to be Barbara Owen. She'd 
been meant to search this room, intended to find something. Teddy Barlow had 
interrupted her when he'd decided she'd had long enough to uncover what she was 
expected to find. Perhaps he'd feared that given sufficient leisure to search the 
room she'd realize that it had been contrived for her benefit.
	She returned the facecloths to the bathroom and left the room. It would tell her 
nothing about Ernst Gemmhardt, she concluded ruefully. It wasn't even his room. 
She left through the rear door, suddenly wanting to be away from the hotel and 
back outside, where she might see her assailants approaching her.
	The high street of Llannewydd was as deserted today as it had been the day 
before. She glanced along its patched roadworks and bedraggled storefronts, 
feeling like a mouse after one of Gwen's cats had done with it. There seemed to be 
the very real possibility that Ernst Gemmhardt was a particularly successful car 
salesman from Mayfair who didn't fancy staying with the rest of his species up at 
the Hare and Hound, and that Teddy Barlow had simply lost his mind and was 
busy endeavoring to make her do the same.
	She had found more or less what she'd expected to find in the hotel room, she 
allowed, but she could make little of what it might mean.
	She passed one of the few parked cars in the high street, glancing at its rear 
window out of habit. She'd gone another few steps before she realized that she'd 
seen something move in the reflected street behind her. The figure had been tall 
and featureless in the instant she'd had to regard it. It had been wrapped in a long 
woolen coat, not at all like the oilskins the fishermen wore. She paused before the 
window of a dress shop, pretending to regard the cracked plaster women behind it. 
The shop had been shut for the winter, its mannequins attired in whatever the 
mainlanders hadn't bought the previous season. She allowed herself to be amused 
by this. They were probably dressed in more recent fashions than she was.
	The man walked past her, turning slightly as he did. She recognized Teddy 
Barlow's luncheon companion from the Hare and Hound reflected in the shop 
window. A moment later he disappeared into an alley.
	Bugger me, mate, she thought wryly. I'd have had a major ragging-out if I'd let 
myself be spotted that easily. She listened carefully to the muttering of the rain 
and the distant ocean. The electronic beeping of a mobile telephone was clearly 
audible above the watery silence of the morning. She strained to make out what 
the man was saying but could not.
	Well down the street the door of Teddy Barlow's blue Fiesta opened and 
disgorged its driver. He was shorter than Teddy Barlow, and slightly overweight. 
After an instant she recognized him as the uniformed policeman from the previous 
day. The man tossed his telephone back into the car and pulled his mackintosh 
about his shoulders. There didn't seem to be anyone else in the car. She watched 
through the corner of her eye as he approached her, his head withdrawn into his 
coat against the increasing torment of the rain.
	This was a moment of advantage, she decided abruptly, still acutely aware of 
her sense of confusion over the events of the morning. John Quick had frequently 
discoursed on the distinction between being followed and being aware that one 
was being followed. She turned back down the high street in the direction she'd 
come, glancing about for the windscreen of another parked car, an opportunity to 
regard her pursuer. Somewhere behind her the man splashed through a puddle and 
cursed audibly. She wondered absently if he was available to entertain at parties 
and stopped herself, chiding herself as she was certain John Quick would have 
done. The fact that the man behind her might well be an idiot in the employ of her 
majesty's government didn't prelude the possibility of his being an armed idiot.
	She glanced at one of the few lighted windows along the high street as she 
passed it and she was startled to find herself regarding a distantly familiar face. 
She was several seconds recalling where she'd seen it last. She stepped into the 
street to consider the front of the establishment before her and she found herself 
staring at the signboard of the Elephant and Castle pub. It was not one of the pubs 
of Llannewydd she had cause to frequent, being wholly given over to the idle 
hours of fishermen back from the sea and laborers at the docks. Women might be 
safe between its walls only if they were wearing cast-iron knickers. The face she'd 
noticed appeared at the window once more.
	It seemed unlikely that many of the fishermen of Aberteyrnas would drag 
themselves from their beds this early in the morning. The sea was far too harsh for 
them to take their boats out. She lingered before the pub for a few moments longer 
until she was certain Teddy Barlow's assistant would notice where she'd gotten to 
and then she stepped resolutely forward.
	There were Elephant and Castle pubs across the British isles, she'd read once, 
as there had been for several centuries. Far from being some Georgian 
entrepreneur's early attempt at franchising, the name was a rather liberal 
bastardization of Infanta en Castille, the designation of a Spanish princess who'd 
been betrothed to one of the English princes back when such things still took place 
and people still cared enough about royal marriages to name their enterprises after 
them. When John Quick had first begun bringing her along on the jobs he did, 
she'd been taken with the idea of there being a familiar-sounding pub wherever 
she found herself. Sadly, they'd proven somewhat inconsistent – she'd practically 
lived in a pub so named in the west end of London for a fortnight while awaiting 
one of John Quick's candidates for eternity, and had rarely enjoyed herself more 
before or since. By comparison, Gwen had once characterized the Elephant on 
Aberteyrnas as a loo with beer pumps at the front. She decided as she entered it 
that she agreed with Gwen's assessment. A scattering of unshaven faces turned to 
regard her, their expressions sodden and disinterested as she crossed the ruined 
lino to the bar.
	From somewhere in the Dickensian gloom beyond the glare of the front 
window of the Elephant she heard the rattle of billiard balls and the clatter of a 
glass dropped onto wood. A radio played almost inaudibly. The musky perfume of 
cigarette smoke and stale beer threatened her.
	The man behind the bar had a shaven head bound in a spotted red kerchief and 
a pronounced gold earring dangling beside his face. He was rotund and looked as 
if he'd be quite pungent when the weather grew warm again. He stared at her for a 
moment as if to ascertain whether she meant to be served or had merely stumbled 
in to seek shelter from the rain, unaware of where she'd entered.
	She was about to order a pint when something occurred to her, a final fragment 
among her thoughts of the previous few minutes. She dropped a pound coin onto 
the bar before the bartender loudly enough to be heard throughout the inky silence 
of the room.
	"Could I trouble you for a glass of soda water?" she asked sweetly.
	The man smiled, betraying a mouth missing more teeth than it had retained. He 
produced a pint glass and filled it from a spigot behind the bar. He snatched up the 
coin as he pushed the glass toward her, as if he were concerned that she might 
mean to trick him. She returned his smile and stepped from the bar.
	The man at the window seemed to be the only one in the Elephant who hadn't 
accorded her the disinterested lust she could imagine enveloping her as she 
walked. He had an empty pint glass before him and what was left of a fag between 
his fingers. His attention seemed to have been drawn by something in the high 
street – or more likely, she decided, by the perpetual nothingness of the high 
street. She was nearly beside him before he seemed to rouse himself from his 
reverie and notice her.
 	"May I sit?" she asked.
	The man's brow furled. He appeared weathered, something carved by an idle 
sailor and then abandoned on the beach. His face was a fine tracery of scars, both 
his hands muted blue with faded tattoos that moved like ruined veins beneath his 
skin. His slate eyes seemed to tease at her for a moment before deciding that there 
was nothing before him worth bothering with.
	"Suit yourself, love," he replied, his voice crackling like an aged wireless.
	"It's Mister Bregman, isn't it?"
	He regarded her with minutely greater interest. "Maybe," he allowed, taking a 
drag from his cigarette.
	"I'm sorry," she continued. "We met briefly last summer. The man I work 
for... worked for... hired a boat from you for a day. John Quick... I think you knew 
him."
	His expression softened for an instant. "Oh, aye," he said, his voice barely a 
whisper now. "I's most sorry to hear o' that... good sort, Mister Quick... good 
sort..."
	Somewhere at the height of the previous summer, during a period of very little 
else to do, John Quick had decided to teach her some sailing. In the end nothing 
with sails had proven to be available for hire and he'd settled for what he'd 
referred to as a floating ruin which an acquaintance of his kept for the tourists. She 
remembered the old wooden motor launch as being smelly and filthy, with clots of 
food wrappers and rusted tools littering the corners of its deck. Its engines had 
coughed and hawked up black clouds of burnt oil when they were asked to do 
much more than idle. It had been exhilarating to crash about the choppy sea that 
day none the less.
	She nodded now, acknowledging his condolences, wondering if he actually 
remembered her. He'd no doubt said something lewd to John Quick when she'd 
been out of earshot, assuming as they all did that she'd served him in quite a 
different capacity.
	"The thing of it is," she continued after what seemed like a suitable period of 
silence, "I should like to hire your boat again." She adjusted her chair slightly to 
afford herself a better view of the bar in the reflection of the pub's window. Teddy 
Barlow's man had found himself a seat near the beer pumps and he was clearly 
attuned to her conversation. The bartender seemed to be regarding his new 
customer with undisguised loathing. She wondered absently what the little pillock 
had ordered.
	Mister Bregman's features gradually succumbed to confusion. He smiled 
warily. "It's a bit late in the season for that, love," he said. "Perhaps next 
summer..."
	"This afternoon," she interrupted.
	He coughed once, eyeing his cigarette angrily for a moment. "You can't be 
serious."
	She leant minutely closer to him, being careful not to lower her voice. "I'm 
quite serious. Shall we say shortly after noon?"
	"You might as well put a gun to your head as go out on a day like this, love," 
he said evenly. "I don't think you have any idea..."
	She sighed, considering how desperate she should appear. "It's odd you should 
put it that way, Mister Bregman," she said. "It isn't that far from the situation I've 
found myself in."
	The man seemed to consider this, saying nothing for a moment.
	"I've diabetes, you see," she continued.
	"Oh, aye," he breathed. "I'd a mate with that once... gone now, he is. Can't 
touch the sweeties, isn't it?"
	She raised her glass. "Or the beer," she agreed. "Rather nasty, and a jab every 
morning on top of it." The man leant back in his chair and she smiled. "Don't 
worry, Mister Bregman... it isn't catching."
	She considered him, trying to fathom whether her tale would manipulate him 
as she intended. It occurred to her that if he asked to see the results of her recent 
injections she'd be at something of a loss. A whisper of sympathy seemed to float 
in his eyes for a moment.
	"The thing of it is that I've run out of insulin," she said angrily. She glanced 
away from him. "And the... and the bloody chemist in town's let all his get past its 
sell-by date. He threw the lot out a few days ago. The ferry's knackered... I should 
think that by tomorrow morning I shall be dead if I don't get to the mainland, or 
very nearly so."
	He touched her hand for an instant. "I'm sorry, love... I really am," he said 
uncertainly. "I'd like to help you, but it would be suicide taking that little boat out 
on a day like this..."
	She caught his eyes, staring into him. "It's suicide if I stay here too," she said. 
"I've run out once before... it isn't the way I fancy dying."
	He regarded her for a moment longer before he turned away from her, fixing 
his gaze on the window. "You don't understand what you're asking for," he said 
woodenly. "I mean, there's the boat as well. It's my livelihood..."
	"Your livelihood is fixing engines and selling petrol, Mister Bregman," she 
offered. "That boat's older than I am."
	"It's still..."
	She pounded her fist on the table, silencing him. "John Quick said it needed 
valves, rings, paint, new fittings... he said that the best thing to be done for it 
would be to hoist up the wheel and slide a new boat under it. About the only thing 
that's recent about it is its lien."
	His attention seemed to return to her. "It's lien?"
	"You've had a loan off the bank with the boat as security," she explained. It 
was a fairly safe guess, she knew. There were few craft floating at the piers of 
Aberteyrnas which the local NatWest didn't own more of than the men who 
piloted them.
	"What of it?" he demanded.
	"When the bank gave you a loan on your boat, they made you take insurance 
for it."
	"Aye," he agree warily.
	"John Quick left me some money when he died. It's about a thousand quid. I 
don't think he had in mind that it should buy me a memorable funeral. I'll give it 
to you for the use of your boat for the afternoon. If I make the mainland, you can 
come and collect the boat as soon as the ferry's running again. If I go down, you 
can claim I stole the boat and the insurance will buy you a new one. You'll have 
the thousand pounds in any case. I should... I should prefer drowning to what's to 
become of me in a few hours."
	She regarded him, imagining the clockwork of his mind turning. That last bit 
had been rather inspired, she considered. God help you, girl, if he wants to know 
how you're supposed to die if you stay on the island, she thought fleetingly. This 
bit of acting could have benefited with some research.
	"I'd have to think about it," he said at length.
	She pushed the sleeve of her coat up her arm, revealing her watch. "Aye, if you 
like," she allowed. "Take all the time you need. In fifteen seconds I shall go find 
another table to sit at and see if there's someone else who'd have use of a thousand 
pounds."
	The man cursed inaudibly, clearly unaccustomed to being asked to deal with 
weighty matters such as this one. The fellow from her majesty's government had 
dropped all pretense of disinterest, she noted, and he was now urgently attentive, 
awaiting the outcome of Mister Bregman's deliberations.
	"Aye," he coughed at last, his reply muted as if he feared that he'd just entered 
into some fearful conspiracy. "Aye... for a thousand pounds, before you leave..."
	She nodded, smiling grimly. "I'll go back to the house and fetch your money 
and a few things." She glanced at her watch. "Shall we say half twelve, then? I'd 
be grateful if you'd have the boat fueled and running when I get back."
	He nodded, clearly regretting his decision. She got to her feet and made for the 
door, being careful to ignore the man at the bar who was watching her leave.
	She walked up the high street once more. Teddy Barlow's little helper emerged 
from the Elephant a few moments after she'd gone, she observed, and he flung 
himself across the high street toward the blue Fiesta. She watched him stab at his 
telephone and begin speaking animatedly into it as she passed his car. She 
imagined that she could all but recite the conversation transpiring behind the 
windscreen, gradually fogging up with the man's labored breathing.
	It seemed unlikely that she'd be followed, but she clambered down the sea wall 
to the beach and made she a pretense of making for John Quick's house as she'd 
said she would. After a few minutes she lost herself in a gathering of rocks and 
waited for a quarter of an hour. No one passed her. Beginning to shiver with the 
cold coming in from the sea, she returned to the high street and located an open 
cafe. She ordered a cup of coffee and found herself a table from which she could 
watch the village and sit vigil for her scheme.
	At twenty minutes past twelve she left the cafe and crossed the high street, 
seeking to make herself as visible as possible. She walked slowly down toward the 
docks. The blue Fiesta had vanished, she observed, although several yards further 
down the street its driver was waiting in the summer house she'd occupied the 
previous day to observe the bank across the street. He had one hand clutched about 
his telephone, and he stared at her quite openly. She resisted the temptation to 
smile at him, or perhaps to walk over and ask him for the time.
	Andrew Bregman Marine Engines was a large shack clinging to the rocks of 
Aberteyrnas, punctuated by a pier that seemed poised to collapse the next time one 
of the better-fed tourists dared venture onto it. The graying timbers that supported 
its rusted iron roof had been inlaid with graffiti and a few faded handbills. She 
recalled glimpsing its interior as John Quick had been completing the 
arrangements for the boat the previous summer and wondering at the cacophony of 
machinery and odd bits of metal it sheltered. There had been a bed in one corner, 
huddled against a paraffin heater and a battered cooker. Mister Bregman appeared 
to live above the shop, as it were. As she approached the building now she 
wondered idly if there was a Misses Bregman, and then decided that she would 
probably be happier not knowing.
	The old boat was wallowing at Bregman's pier, its engine coughing fitfully. 
She found a copse of trees a few yards from the water and vanished within them, 
wondering how long it would continue to do so. Somewhere nearby, she decided, 
Teddy Barlow or one of his mates was lurking about with a sack of sugar and 
malice aforethought. It seemed distantly surprising that they'd not sabotaged the 
boat long before she'd gotten near it.
	She waited for another twenty minutes. The sound of the engine grew more 
ragged, but it clearly didn't seem to have been interfered with. At length she 
emerged from her hiding place and glanced back along the high street. The man in 
the summer house was still observing her, she noticed. Curious, she began walking 
toward the pier.
	She was a dozen yards from the old boat when it exploded. The charge had 
been well designed, carefully placed. A single gout of flame licked the gray sky, 
and a soft thunderclap rumbled the stones beneath her. The note of the engine 
changed minutely. It seemed to protest for an instant before it vomited a cloud of 
black smoke and fell silent. The sea around the boat boiled and the old hull began 
to go down rapidly by its stern. It vanished after less than a dozen heartbeats, its 
engines neatly dropped out of it. Mister Bregman appeared from the doorway of 
his shack and ran to the edge of his pier, shouting incoherently. After a few 
moments he seemed to notice her.
	She turned away, walking determinedly toward the high street, uncomfortably 
aware that she'd been exposed and preoccupied while she'd watched the sinking 
boat. 
	Bloody hell, Mister Barlow, she thought, you were supposed to knacker the 
poor thing, not blow it up. She glanced back over her shoulder at the diminishing 
figure on the pier. Hopefully he would find it easier to get the insurance to replace 
the whole boat, rather than merely its engines.
	Something caught her eye for an instant. Well down the pier there was another 
boat of interest, she realized. This one had traceries of blue and white plastic tape 
stretched across it, and a yellow marker that would have advised her that it was the 
scene of a crime under police investigation, had she been close enough to read it. 
She turned to peer at it for a moment and then she resumed walking.
 	John Quick would no doubt have berated her for the trouble she'd put Mister 
Bregman to merely to see what Teddy Barlow would do if he was suitably 
provoked. She would probably reproach herself for having exposed the man to 
what might well have been considerable danger. She wondered at the likelihood of 
Teddy Barlow having set off his explosives if she'd approached the pier while 
Mister Bregman was still on the boat.
	The man in the summer house was gone, she observed. Presumably he'd either 
controlled the explosion himself or telephoned Teddy Barlow when she'd neared 
the boat. She wondered fleetingly if she was still being observed. It seemed 
unlikely. She was intended to scuttle back to the house and hide after her close 
brush with death, and Teddy Barlow probably had little expectation of her doing 
otherwise.
	She sought about for a telephone box, thinking as she did that she must be the 
only character in the peculiar little drama unfolding about her that would have to 
do so. If she wasn't dead or in the nick when this was all over, she decided, she'd 
have a telephone that would fit in the pocket of her coat. Locating a ten pence 
piece amidst the clutter of her pockets, she rang Doctor McKie's surgery. He was 
a long while answering.
	The police cordon about Peter Llewellyn's boat was barely visible through the 
glass of the call box, she noticed as she waited for the doctor to answer. She stared 
at it as she might have done a wound she'd thought healed, only to find it bleeding 
anew.
	"Doctor McKie?" she asked as the receiver was lifted, pushing ten pence into 
the telephone.
	"Yes?"
	"This is Emma Gwynn," she continued. "I hope I'm not interrupting your 
surgery."
	There was a momentary pause before he replied. "Not at all, my dear," he said, 
a touch of amusement in his voice. "Winter hours... I don't see patients until the 
late afternoon, and I'm afraid I don't see many even then."
	"I wonder... I wonder if I might stop 'round for a moment," she said 
uncertainly. "I don't mean to trouble you after all that's happened, but there are a 
few questions I can't get my head 'round... about the man who was shot."
	The doctor said nothing for a moment. She watched the timer on the telephone 
tick away the seconds, wondering if she should be searching for another coin.
	"Perhaps I'll come visit you," he said. "I shouldn't mind getting out for a 
while. Are you at the house?"
	"No, I'm in Llannewydd, down by the Elephant. Are you sure you don't 
mind?"
	She imagined that she heard him chuckle. Are you laughing at me, Doctor 
McKie, for warning you away from me and then asking for your help, she 
wondered. "I'll see you in a few minutes," he said. The line went dead and she 
hung up the receiver well before her ten pence expired.
	Doctor McKie's Jaguar appeared at length, idling down the high street. She 
stepped toward it and it paused. Clearly he meant for her to join him in the car, she 
realized, opening the passenger-side door. A breath of warm air fondled her as she 
eased herself into it, her eyes adjusting to the hushed darkness. She closed the door 
and the car slipped forward.
	"It's awfully kind of you to meet me," she said, glancing across at the older 
man.
	"Not at all," he replied, watching the road before him. "Have you thought of 
something more concerning poor Peter Llewellyn?"
	"Not... as such," she said, thinking the phrase something that John Quick 
would have said under similar circumstances, wishing to redirect the conversation 
slightly. "I actually wanted to ask you whether there were any powder burns on 
the body when you examined it."
	Doctor McKie turned to face her momentarily. "Powder burns?"
	She nodded. "Aye, gunpowder on his clothes or on his skin around the entry 
wound."
	He smiled uncomfortably and shook his head. "I'm afraid I learned what little I 
know about gunshot wounds from John, my dear... oh, and from yourself. Last 
evening was most instructive. When I'm called in by the police it's to determine a 
cause of death and sign the certificate. I believe they have a fellow over from the 
mainland when there's anything... suspicious."
	The leather seat seemed to envelope her and she allowed herself to slump into 
it. It seemed reasonable that the doctor's interest in his patients would end with 
their deaths. She glanced at him, her confusion of the previous day returning to 
torment her.
	"Perhaps I shouldn't ask this, doctor, but... I don't imagine it would be possible 
to see Mister Llewellyn for a moment."
	He seemed to consider this. "I shouldn't think he has much on this afternoon," 
he said at length, smiling. "The body would still be at the police station, I should 
say."






